an entity  that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity  that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant  that is a bearer of quality  and realizable entity  entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
a continuant  that is either dependent on one or other independent continuant  bearers or inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a processual entity  that is a maximally connected spatiotemporal whole and has bona fide beginnings and endings corresponding to real discontinuities .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
a specifically dependent continuant  that is exhibited if it inheres in an entity or entities at all  ( a categorical property )  .
a continuant  that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
a continuant  that is dependent on one or other independent continuant  bearers .
an independent continuant  that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
naturally occurring polyribonucleotides .
carboxylic acids containing one or more amino groups .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take
a label is a symbol that is part of some other datum and is used to either partially define  the denotation of that datum or to provide a means for identifying the datum as a member of the set of data with the same label
software is a plan specification composed of a series of instructions that can be  interpreted by or directly executed by a processing unit .
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a smallish ,  word - like datum . . .
an information content entity is an entity that is generically dependent on some artifact and stands in relation of aboutness to some entity
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a plan specification which describes inputs ,  output of mathematical functions as well as workflow of execution for achieving an predefined objective .
the curation status of the term .
a data format specification is the information content borne by the document published defining the specification .
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity that when concretized it is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives ,  in part by taking the actions specified .
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
a textual entity is a part of a manifestation  ( frbr sense )  ,  a generically dependent continuant whose concretizations are patterns of glyphs intended to be interpreted as words ,  formulas ,  etc .
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
a symbol that is part_of a crid and that is sufficient to look up a record from the crid's registry .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a data item which is used to indicate the degree of uncertainty about a measurement .
an organization is a continuant entity which can play roles ,   has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
a quality of a dna molecule that inheres in its bearer due to the order of its dna nucleotide residues .
the primary structure of an rna molecule that is completely defined by the set of its nucleic residue parts and the linear order induced by the peptide bonds that hold them together
a information content entity created to indicate that information about something is not available to the person recording it .
a role which inheres in a person who uses a service
is a role which inheres in a person or organization and is realized in in a planned process which provides access to training ,  materials or execution of protocols for an organization or person
a measurement datum that representing the primary structure of a macromolecule ( it's sequence )  sometimes associated with an indicator of confidence of that measurement .
a planned process in which a service provider performs a task  ( i .e .
a sequence data item that is about the primary structure of dna
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a data transformation is a process which produces output data from input data
a sequence analysis objective is a data transformation objective which aims to analyse some ordered biological data for sequential patterns .
a data transformation objective is an objective specification that a data transformation may have towards which the realization of that transformation is directed .
a textual entity that refers to a digital document derived from a computer system .
a textual entity that is the suffix for a file name .
a textual entity that gives the details of the different supported data formats and associated file extension and other metadata .
a data format specification that is used to specify the content type over the web .
an algorithm that assigns set of observations / data into subsets  ( called clusters )  so that observations / data in the same cluster are similar in some sense .
a sequence analysis objective that describes the aim to study the equivalence between sites of molecular sequences including nucleic acid and protein sequence .
an algorithm that attempts to align two molecular sequences  ( nucleic acid or protein sequences )  .
an algorithm that is used to obtain multiple sequence alignments between nucleotide or protein sequences .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the distance between two consecutive gaps when aligning two sequences ,  within which introducing a new gap is penalized in addition to gap creation penalty .
a software execution setting specification  that states whether or not to apply the gap extension penalty when scoring terminal gaps using a boolean value .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the maximum number of iterations to perform .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the multiple alignment improvement iteration type .
a symbol that specifies a particular algorithm to be implemented in a tool or software .
a data item which is a tree that represents the relationship between sequences and is used to build the multiple sequence alignment .
a retrieve web service execution result objective that describes the goal of retrieving the sequence alignment result .
a crid symbol used to uniquely identify a submitted web service execution .
a sequence alignment data set that is produced as the output of a multiple sequence alignment process .
a textual entity that is the name of a web service job submitted .
a web service execution that filters sequence data depending on their similarity score to a specified sequence and expectation value .
a gap penalty setting specification that specifies the penalty for introducing a new gap when producing an alignment .
a scoring matrix that is used for scoring alignment of nucleotide sequences .
a matrix that stores the evolutionary distance between each pair of protein sequences ,  with each species starting on a new line with the species name ,  followed by the distances to the species in order .
a phylip execution that computes a protein evolution distance matrix using a amino acid replacement model .
a gap penalty setting specification that specifies the penalty for extending a gap when aligning sequences .
a phylip execution that constructs an unrooted phylogenetic tree from a protein distance matrix by successive clustering using either neighbor joining or upgma method of clustering .
a web service execution that involves invocation of different programs  for inferring phylogenetic relationships between groups of organisms .
a web service execution that returns the status  ( e .g .
a web service execution that performs multiple sequence alignment .
a web service execution that retrieves all the supported output data format for a particular execution .
a retrieve web service execution result that would fetch the result of alignment analysis given its unique execution identifier .
a service that exposes an arbitrary set of operations which can be accessed through a programmatic interface to a web server maintained by the service provider .
a scoring matrix that describes the probability at which one amino acid in a protein sequence changes to other amino acid over time .
a planned process that realizes the concretization of a software .
a lower triangular matrix where each cell represents a score to be assigned to a specific type of pairing of nucleotide or amino acid sequences generally used in sequence alignment .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the penalty value for each gap introduced when aligning sequences  ( accounts for both gap creation and gap extension penalties )  .
an objective specification that a web service execution accomplishes .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the number of k - tuple matches on each diagonal used to create pairwise alignment .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the output type for fast pairwise alignment score  ( can be either percent or absolute )  .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the number of diagonals around each of the 'best' diagonals that will be used for joining word matches .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the alignment word size used to find matches between the sequences .
a sequence similarity identification objective that aims to align multiple sequences at a time to determine the equivalence between them .
a sequence similarity identification objective that aims to align two sequences at a time to determine the equivalence between them .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the number of hsps to be reported ,  such that any given hsp is allowed to be a member of just one set .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the sensitivity level of the search performed ,  it can take following values  ( very low ,  low , normal ,  medium ,  high )  .
a software execution setting specification that specifies a statistical model to use for scoring alignments  ( pairwise )  .
a data format specification that specifies the format for the data produced as a result of pairwise sequence alignment .
a sequence filter algorithm identifier that specifies an algorithm to pre - process the query sequence ,  such that the low complexity regions in the sequence are filtered out before sequence alignment as low complexity regions tend to give a false estimate of the similarity score .
a data item which specifies a sequence filter that pre - processes the query sequence before alignment to remove the undesired portions of it .
a software execution setting specification that specifies whether or not to show in the output file the query sequence used for the search ,  post filtering .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the maximum number of match scores displayed in the output .
a software execution setting specification that defines the range of query sequence to use for search .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the maximum number of alignments displayed in the output .
a textual entity that specifies the dna strand ,  upper ,  lower or both of a specific gene to be considered in alignment .
a software execution setting specification that determines the minimum allowable score for a sequence to be matched after which the algorithm gives up on aligning that sequence .
a data set that is stored on a computer and used for molecular sequence similarity search .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the ordering criteria that is used to order the sequences  ( before displaying )  that matched the search criteria .
a sequence data that is about sequence of amino acids which are linked by peptide bonds .
ws annotations group ,  uga
a quantitative confidence value which determines a threshold value such that only alignments scoring more than this value are considered .
a  retrieve web service execution result that retrieves the outcome of a signal peptide prediction process given a unique web service execution identifier .
a web service execution that performs local pairwise sequence alignment to search a database for similar sequences .
a protein signature prediction method that serves as a prediction model to predict the location of signal peptides in a protein sequence .
a data set that is as an outcome of protein signature prediction process .
blast  ( basic local alignment search tool )  ,  a pairwise sequence alignment algorithm is a heuristic search algorithm for comparing primary biological sequence information ,  such as the amino - acid or nucleotides sequences with a database of sequences ,  and identify sequences that resemble the query sequence above a certain threshold .
a data transformation process that attempts to align two molecular sequences in order to study the equivalence between sites of molecular sequences including nucleic acid and protein sequence .
a pairwise sequence alignment data transformation that attempts to align two molecular sequences considering only parts of the sequences in order to study the equivalence between sites of molecular sequences including nucleic acid and protein sequence .
a multiple sequence alignment data transformation that attempts to align the sequences considering their entire length .
an objective specification that describes the goal of fetching the status of a web service execution .
a record of missing knowledge that describes terms in the document that are not present in the ontology .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the scores for a match and miss - match ,  to be used when searching for similar nucleotide sequences .
 a local pairwise sequence alignment data transformation that performs pairwise sequence alignment to search sequence databases for similar sequences .
a crid symbol that serves as an identifier for a molecular sequence or for an entry from a molecular sequence database .
a software execution setting specification which specifies whether  the gapped areas in query sequence should be aligned in the process of sequence alignment or not using a boolean value .
a data set that is made up of a rectangular array of elements  ( or entries )  set out by rows and columns .
a web service execution that retrieves the sequence given the sequence identifier and the sequence database that has the sequence .
an identify protein signature execution that attempts to predict the presence and location of signal peptide cleavage sites in a protein sequence .
an identify protein signature objective that describes the goal of predicting  the presence and location of signal peptide cleavage sites in an amino acid sequence .
a software execution that is provided by the web service ,  and involves invoking software execution over network .
a data format specification for molecular sequence feature information .
an objective specification of retrieving a sequence from a sequence database given the sequence identifier and the database that has the sequence .
a software execution setting specification that is used to specify whether histogram is returned with the result of fasta search using  true or false boolean value .
a pairwise sequence alignment data transformation that produces accurate alignments are carried out by using a dynamic programming method  ( myers and miller )  to align every pair of sequences .
a data transformation that attempts to align multiple  ( more than two )  molecular sequences in order to study the equivalence between sites of molecular sequences including nucleic acid and protein sequence .
a matrix with equal number of rows and columns for which all the elements above the main diagonal have values equal to 0 .
a data set that is produced as the output of some sequence alignment process .
a data format specification that specifies the data format for the outcome of sequence alignment  ( pairwise or multiple )  process .
a data format specification that specifies the format for the data produced as a result of multiple sequence alignment .
a software execution setting specification that designates the order in which sequences appear in a final alignment .
a symbol that is used to specify the status of a web service execution .
a pairwise sequence alignment data transformation that produces fast / approximate alignments using the method of wilbur and lipman  ( 1983 )  and may be more suitable for sequences longer than 1000 residues .
an objective specification that describes the goal of filtering sequence data depending on their similarity score to a specified sequence and expectation value .
a retrieve web service execution result objective that describes the goal of retrieving the result of an operation to predict  the presence and location of signal peptide cleavage sites in amino acid sequences .
a software execution setting specification that specifies whether multiple high scoring alignments have to be displayed or not in the result using true or false boolean value .
an objective specification that describes the goal of retrieving the supported output data formats for a particular web service execution .
a mime type specification which represents an encoding scheme that represent binary data in an ascii string format by translating it into a radix - 64 representation .
an algorithm or a predictive model to predict the presence of a particular protein signature .
a  web service execution that fetches the outcome of some previously executed web service operation  ( execution )  given an execution identifier that is unique for that particular web service .
a data item which is a score assigned for a signal peptide region predicted by a signal peptide prediction algorithm .
a quantitative confidence value that acts as a threshold score to determine if the sequence pattern in consideration is a signal peptide or not .
a web service execution that tries to locate occurrence of different known protein signatures like signal peptides in a protein sequence .
an information content entity which is an input setting parameter  ( usually optional )  to some software execution that controls the way in which output is generated or displayed or which algorithm need to be executed .
a data item which is the outcome of predict signal peptide cleavage sites execution that specifies if a signal peptide chain is found or not .
a data format specification that consists of any number of records and each record separated by a comma  ( ' , ' )  .
an objective specification that describes the goal of identifying protein signatures  in a protein sequence .
an objective specification that describes the goal of retrieving the outcome of some previously executed web service execution .
a predicted signal peptide cleavage sites data set that includes the outcome and all the meta data  of signal peptide cleavage sites prediction process .
a web service execution identifier that uniquely identifies a submitted a phylip web service execution .
a sequence analysis objective that describes the goal of constructing a phylogenetic tree that shows inferred evolutionary relationships between protein sequences .
an algorithm that is the method for construction of  consensus tree .
a data set  which is a tree that represents evolutionary relationships between species ,  where the length of branches of the tree can signify evolutionary distance .
an amino acid substitution matrix that describes the probability at which one amino acid in a protein sequence changes to other amino acid over time calculated using an empirical model for protein evolution .
a sequence analysis objective that aims to compute a protein distance matrix for a multiple sequence alignment using a suitable amino acid replacement model .
a phylogenetic tree that is a cladogram which summarizes agreement between two or more phylogenetic trees .
a data set that is a set of rules  by which information encoded in genetic material  ( dna or mrna sequences )  is translated into proteins  ( amino acid sequences )  .
a phylip execution that constructs a consensus tree that summarizes the  agreement between two or more phylogenetic trees .
a rna sequence data that is about the primary structure of rna sequence produced by transcription .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the minimum value of  d - score which is the average of the s - mean and y - max score from signalp - nn  ( neural network )  .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the minimum value of signalp summary conclusion score .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the minimum value of signal probability from signalp - hmm .
a software execution setting specification that specifies union or intersection of advanced parameters .
an objective specification of retrieving genes based on different parameters  ( e .g . ,  gene locus tag ,  taxonomy or signal peptide etc .
a web service execution that retrieves all genes of one or more species / organism ( s )  .
a crid symbol that is systematically applied to every gene in a genome within the context of sequencing projects .
a sequence data that is about the primary structure of rna .
a sequence data  that is about primary structure of coding sequence of dna .
a data item that represents length of predicted protein sequence .
a web service execution that retrieves all genes that are predicted to encode a signal peptide .
a data item indicates the location of a gene in the genome ,  which can influence the expression of the gene and functional interactions of the gene expression products .
a web service execution that retrieves genes using list of comma separated gene locus tag .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the upper bound for the protein isoelectric point .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the lower bound for the protein isoelectric point .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the confidence of epitope present in predicted protein for a gene .
a web service execution that retrieves all genes having number of predicted transmembrane domains in a range that user specify .
a web service execution that retrieves all genes whose encoding protein has an epitope identified by the immune epitope database and analysis resource with the confidence specified by the user .
a web service execution that retrieves all genes whose unmodified protein product has a molecular weight in a range that user specify .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the minimum value for protein molecular weight .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the maximum value for protein molecular weight .
a software execution setting specification that specifies the upper bound on number of predicted transmembrane domains a protein may have .
a web service execution that retrieves all genes whose protein product has an isoelectric point in a range that user specify .
a sequence_feature with an extent greater than zero .
a sequence of amino acids linked by peptide bonds which may lack appreciable tertiary structure and may not be liable to irreversible denaturation .
an attribute to describe the kind of biological sequence .
