the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna segregation by mitosis and the beginning of dna synthesis .
the cell cycle phase ,  following g1 ,  during which dna synthesis takes place as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of dna segregation by mitosis .
the mitotic cell cycle transition by which a cell in g2 commits to m phase .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase and occurs as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of m phase of mitosis and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the cell cycle phase ,  following prophase ,  during which chromosomes become aligned on the equatorial plate of the cell as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
the cell cycle phase in higher eukaryotes which follows mitotic prophase and during which the nuclear envelope is disrupted and breaks into membrane vesicles ,  and the spindle microtubules enter the nuclear region .
progression through the phases of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the most common eukaryotic cell cycle ,  which canonically comprises four successive phases called g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  and m and includes replication of the genome and the subsequent segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase .
the division of a cell nucleus into two nuclei ,  with dna and other nuclear contents distributed between the daughter nuclei .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of dna ,  involving the hydrolysis of internal 3' , 5' - phosphodiester bonds in one or two strands of deoxyribonucleotides .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the developmental process in which the size or shape of a cell is generated and organized .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs when relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
the division of the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a dna region that regulates a dna - based process .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific sequence of dna that is part of a regulatory region that controls transcription of that section of the dna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nucleic acid region that regulates a nucleic acid - based process .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a dna or rna sequence in order to modulate transcription .
a contractile actin filament bundle that consists of short actin filaments with alternating polarity ,  cross - linked by alpha - actinin and possibly other actin bundling proteins ,  and with myosin present in a periodic distribution along the fiber .
an actin - rich adhesion structure characterized by formation upon cell substrate contact and localization at the substrate - attached part of the cell ,  contain an f - actin - rich core surrounded by a ring structure containing proteins such as vinculin and talin ,  and have a diameter of 0 .5 mm .
elemental activities ,  such as catalysis or binding ,  describing the actions of a gene product at the molecular level .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any nucleic acid .
any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively and non - covalently with dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific dna sequence in order to modulate transcription .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
that part of the nuclear content other than the chromosomes or the nucleolus .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
the part of the cytoplasm that does not contain organelles but which does contain other particulate matter ,  such as protein complexes .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
any of the long ,  generally straight ,  hollow tubes of internal diameter 12 - 15 nm and external diameter 24 nm found in a wide variety of eukaryotic cells ;  each consists  ( usually )  of 13 protofilaments of polymeric tubulin ,  staggered in such a manner that the tubulin monomers are arranged in a helical pattern on the microtubular surface ,  and with the alpha / beta axes of the tubulin subunits parallel to the long axis of the tubule ;  exist in equilibrium with pool of tubulin monomers and can be rapidly assembled or disassembled in response to physiological stimuli ;  concerned with force generation ,  e .g .
a filamentous structure formed of a two - stranded helical polymer of the protein actin and associated proteins .
a cell junction at which anchoring proteins  ( cadherins or integrins )  extend through the plasma membrane and are attached to actin filaments .
an adherens junction which connects a cell to the extracellular matrix .
small region on the surface of a cell that anchors the cell to the extracellular matrix and that forms a point of termination of actin filaments .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular metabolic process involving deoxyribonucleic acid .
the process in which the number of copies of a gene is increased in certain cells as extra copies of dna are made in response to certain signals of cell development or of stress from the environment .
the cellular dna metabolic process resulting in the breakdown of dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long unbranched macromolecule formed from one or two strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides ,  the 3' - phosphate group of each constituent deoxyribonucleotide being joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage to the 5' - hydroxyl group of the deoxyribose moiety of the next one .
the cleavage of dna during apoptosis ,  which usually occurs in two stages: cleavage into fragments of about 50 kbp followed by cleavage between nucleosomes to yield 200 bp fragments .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - dependent transcription .
the process of targeting specific proteins to particular membrane - bounded subcellular organelles .
the directed movement of a protein from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen ,  including  ( but not limited to )  nitrogen fixation ,  nitrification ,  denitrification ,  assimilatory / dissimilatory nitrate reduction and the interconversion of nitrogenous organic matter and ammonium .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of proteins in a cell ,  including the movement of proteins between specific compartments or structures within a cell ,  such as organelles of a eukaryotic cell .
the directed movement of molecules between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
a programmed cell death process which begins when a cell receives an internal  ( e .g .
the breakdown of structures such as organelles ,  proteins ,  or other macromolecular structures during apoptosis .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another along a substrate such as the extracellular matrix ;  the migrating cell forms a protrusion that attaches to the substrate .
the formation of a cell surface protrusion ,  such as a lamellipodium or filopodium ,  at the leading edge of a migrating cell .
the cellular process that joins two lipid bilayers to form a single membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the endoplasmic reticulum .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides ;  the process involves condensation of chromosomal dna into a highly compacted form .
the cell cycle process in which chromatin structure is compacted prior to and during mitosis in eukaryotic cells .
the cell cycle process in which chromosomes are aligned at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the mitotic spindle ,  during mitosis .
the cell cycle process in which chromosome structure is altered from the condensed form taken on during mitosis to the relaxed disperse form held in resting cells .
the cell cycle process in which centrosome duplication and separation takes place .
the cell cycle process in which a daughter centriole is formed perpendicular to an existing centriole .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules .
the binding of a cell to the extracellular matrix via adhesion molecules .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
a series of reactions in which a signal is passed on to downstream proteins within the cell by sequential protein phosphorylation and activation of the cascade components .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell through the i - kappab - kinase  ( ikk )  - dependent activation of nf - kappab .
the selective interaction of the transcription factor nf - kappab with specific molecules in the cytoplasm ,  thereby inhibiting its translocation into the nucleus .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
the release of nf - kappab from specific molecules in the cytoplasm to which it was bound ,  thereby allowing its translocation into the nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the controlled release of proteins from a cell .
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size in one  [ spatial ]  dimension or along one axis ,  resulting in the morphogenesis of the cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the cell cycle process where a cell leaves m phase .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a series of reactions ,  mediated by protein kinases ,  which occurs as a result of a single trigger reaction or compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a series of reactions ,  mediated by protein kinases ,  which occurs as a result of a single trigger reaction or compound .
a process which begins when a cell receives an internal or external signal and activates a series of biochemical events  ( signaling pathway )  .
the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of actin and associated proteins .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of microtubules and associated proteins .
a membrane - bounded vesicle found in the cytoplasm of the cell .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
a permanent cessation of all vital functions: the end of life ;  can be applied to a whole organism or to a part of an organism .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another ,  often during the development of a multicellular organism or multicellular structure .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  or within the cytoplasm of a cell .
extra - nucleolar nuclear domains usually visualized by confocal microscopy and fluorescent antibodies to specific proteins .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a nucleotidyl group to a reactant .
the directed movement of proteins into a cell or organelle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the cell cycle is divided .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a cellular component .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cellular component .
the attachment of a cell or organism to a substrate or other organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
a thin sheetlike process extended by the leading edge of a crawling fibroblast ;  contains a dense meshwork of actin filaments .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the actin cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
formation of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
movement of organelles or other particles along actin filaments ,  or sliding of actin filaments past each other ,  mediated by motor proteins .
a cellular component that forms a specialized region of connection between two cells or between a cell and the extracellular matrix .
a cell junction that forms a connection between a cell and the extracellular matrix .
a membrane - bounded intracellular vesicle formed by invagination of the plasma membrane around an extracellular substance .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
thin ,  stiff protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast or amoeba ,  or an axonal growth cone ;  usually approximately 0 .1 um wide ,  5 - 10 um long ,  can be up to 50 um long in axon growth cones ;  contains a loose bundle of about 20 actin filaments oriented with their plus ends pointing outward .
the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
alterations undergone by nuclei at the molecular and morphological level and that contribute to the execution phase of apoptosis .
the long process of a neuron that conducts nerve impulses ,  usually away from the cell body to the terminals and varicosities ,  which are sites of storage and release of neurotransmitter .
a neuron projection that has a short ,  tapering ,  often branched ,  morphology ,  receives and integrates signals from other neurons or from sensory stimuli ,  and conducts a nerve impulse towards the axon or the cell body .
the portion of the cytoskeleton that lies just beneath the plasma membrane .
the portion of the actin cytoskeleton ,  comprising filamentous actin and associated proteins ,  that lies just beneath the plasma membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a microtubule organizing center ,  a structure from which microtubules grow .
a membrane - bounded organelle of ciliated protozoan cells that contains a diploid copy of the cell's complete genome .
the area of a motile cell closest to the direction of movement .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
a vesicle formed of membrane or protein ,  found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
a cilium which has a variable arrangement of axonemal microtubules ,  contains molecular motors ,  and beats with a characteristic whip - like pattern that promotes cell motility or transport of fluids and other cells across a cell surface .
the attachment of a cell to the underlying substrate via adhesion molecules .
the enclosed volume within a sealed membrane or between two sealed membranes .
the volume enclosed by the nuclear inner membrane .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane or protein .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by a lipid bilayer .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of the transcription factor nf - kappab .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
an assembly of actin filaments that are on the same axis but may be oriented with the same or opposite polarities and may be packed with different levels of tightness .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
the process in which cellular structures ,  including whole cells or cell parts ,  are generated and organized .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an organelle .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  ;  the synthesis of dna from deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a nucleic acid template and primer .
the morphogenetic process that results in flattening of a cell as a consequence of its adhesion to a substrate .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the nucleus .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
a region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of movement of proteins from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of movement of proteins from the cytoplasm into the nucleus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of proteins from the cytoplasm into the nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the transfer of nf - kappab ,  a transcription factor for eukaryotic rna polymerase ii promoters ,  from the cytoplasm into the nucleus ,  across the nuclear membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transfer of nf - kappab ,  a transcription factor for eukaryotic rna polymerase ii promoters ,  from the cytoplasm into the nucleus ,  across the nuclear membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the transfer of nf - kappab ,  a transcription factor for eukaryotic rna polymerase ii promoters ,  from the cytoplasm into the nucleus ,  across the nuclear membrane .
the directed movement of nf - kappab ,  a transcription factor for eukaryotic rna polymerase ii promoters ,  from the cytoplasm into the nucleus ,  across the nuclear membrane .
any complex of actin ,  myosin ,  and accessory proteins .
polarized growth from one end of a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a transcription factor from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
the directed movement of a transcription factor from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a transcription factor from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a transcription factor from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
the selective interaction of a transcription factor with specific molecules in the cytoplasm ,  thereby inhibiting its translocation into the nucleus .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a prolongation or process extending from a nerve cell ,  e .g .
any process that modulates an i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab induced cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab induced cascade .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the internal volume enclosed by the membranes of a particular organelle ;  includes the volume enclosed by a single organelle membrane ,  e .g .
any macromolecular complex composed of two or more polypeptide subunits ,  which may or may not be identical .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with dna of a specific nucleotide composition ,  e .g .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a dna region that regulates the transcription of a region of dna ,  which may be a gene ,  cistron ,  or operon .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any large molecule including proteins ,  nucleic acids and carbohydrates ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
a dendrite arising from another dendrite .
any constituent part of an organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
any constituent part of the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
any constituent part of a chromosome ,  a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
any constituent part of the nucleus ,  a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
any constituent part of a mitochondrion ,  a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
any constituent part of the cytoskeleton ,  a cellular scaffolding or skeleton that maintains cell shape ,  enables some cell motion  ( using structures such as flagella and cilia )  ,  and plays important roles in both intra - cellular transport  ( e .g .
any constituent part of the golgi apparatus ,  a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
any constituent part of the endoplasmic reticulum ,  the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
any constituent part of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
any constituent part of the cytoplasm ,  all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a constituent part of an intracellular organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
any constituent part of the cell cortex ,  the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
any constituent part of the nucleoplasm ,  that part of the nuclear content other than the chromosomes or the nucleolus .
any constituent part of a cell projection ,  a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a biological process that involves only one organism .
a signaling process occurring within a single organism .
the process of directing proteins towards the nucleus ,  usually using signals contained within the protein .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  occurring within a single organism .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore ,  involving a single organism .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition ,  involving only one organism .
the cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering the next cell cycle phase .
the cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering the next mitotic cell cycle phase .
the mitotic cell cycle phase transition whose occurrence commits the cell from the g0 quiescent state to the g1 phase .
the joining of two or more lipid bilayer membranes that surround a cell .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a location and prevented from moving elsewhere .
a membrane - bounded intracellular vesicle that arises from the ingestion of particulate material by phagocytosis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the cytoplasm and the nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell or a tissue .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
the creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell ,  where the increase in size or mass has the specific outcome of the progression of the organism over time from one condition to another .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another .
any process in which a chromosome is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activity of the transcription factor nf - kappab .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of ,  or within the nucleus .
the directed movement of substances into the nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in a specific location .
the selective interaction of a protein with specific molecules in the cytoplasm ,  thereby inhibiting its transport into other areas of the cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a cell ,  substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  to a specific location .
any process in which a cell ,  substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is maintained in a location and prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a centrosome ,  a structure comprised of a pair of centrioles and peri - centriolar material from which a microtubule spindle apparatus is organized .
the replication of a centrosome ,  a structure comprised of a pair of centrioles and peri - centriolar material from which a microtubule spindle apparatus is organized .
the process resulting in the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells .
the directed movement of a chromosome to a specific location .
the alignment of chromosomes at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the spindle .
the alteration of chromosome structure from the condensed form to a relaxed disperse form .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna segregation  ( usually by mitosis or meiosis )  and the beginning of dna synthesis .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of dna segregation  ( usually by mitosis or meiosis )  .
the cell cycle phase ,  following g1 ,  during which dna synthesis takes place .
the cell cycle phase ,  following prophase or prometaphase in higher eukaryotes ,  during which chromosomes become aligned on the equatorial plate of the cell .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of m phase of meiosis and mitosis and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when prophase of meiosis or mitosis begins .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when mitotic prophase begins .
any process in which an organelle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a localization process that takes place at the cellular level ;  as a result of a cellular localization process ,  a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
the directed movement of a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  to a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is maintained in a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
the directed movement of an organelle to a specific location .
any process in which a cell is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
the increase in size or mass of an anatomical structure that contributes to the structure attaining its shape .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
the membrane organization process that joins two lipid bilayers to form a single membrane .
the endoplasmic reticulum organization process that results in the structure of the endoplasmic reticulum being oriented in the cell .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
an organelle lumen that is part of an intracellular organelle .
a cell junction that mechanically attaches a cell  ( and its cytoskeleton )  to neighboring cells or to the extracellular matrix .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
the actin filament - based process in which cytoplasmic actin filaments slide past one another resulting in contraction of all or part of the cell body .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
a cellular process that results in a change in the spatial configuration of a dna molecule .
the directed movement of organic substances into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the cellular dna metabolic process resulting in the formation of dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long unbranched macromolecule formed from one or two strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides ,  the 3' - phosphate group of each constituent deoxyribonucleotide being joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage to the 5' - hydroxyl group of the deoxyribose moiety of the next one .
the part of a cell encompassing the cell cortex ,  the plasma membrane ,  and any external encapsulating structures .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleic acids .
the nucleic acid metabolic process in which the phosphodiester bonds between nucleotides are cleaved by hydrolysis .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an organic cyclic compound ,  any molecular entity that contains carbon arranged in a cyclic molecular structure .
a stage of the apoptotic process that starts with the controlled breakdown of the cell through the action of effector caspases or other effector molecules  ( e .g .
an arrangement of closely apposed microtubules running parallel to each other .
any constituent part of a neuron ,  the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with heterocyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's scalar absolute value of the rate of change of the bearer's position .
a scalar optical property that is the intensity ,  value or amount of perceived light .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the number of the bearer's repetitive actions in a particular time .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing or displaying a distinctive feature in type or degree or effect or force .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting repetition of placement of its parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a quality of a process which ends earlier than the natural end time or reference process .
a speed which is relatively high .
a speed which is relatively low .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of or the relationships between its repeated parts lack consistency .
a frequency which is relatively high .
a frequency which is relatively low .
an intensity which is less than moderate in type or degree or effect or force .
an intensity which is extremely bad or unpleasant in type or degree or effect or force .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being such that every part of the surface or the circumference is equidistant from the center .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a repeatable or predictable placement .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively low .
a quality of a process which starts later than the natural start time or the reference process .
a length quality which is relatively large .
a length quality which is relatively small .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a thickness which is relatively high .
a thickness which is relatively low .
a volume which is relatively high .
a volume which is relatively low .
a width which is relatively small .
a width which is relatively large .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking symmetry .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two sides ;  two - sided .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of blebbing of the nucleus and dna fragmentation due to the cell undergoing a specific form of programmed cell death termed apoptosis .
a color brightness which is relatively high .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being uninterrupted in time ,  sequence ,  substance ,  or extent .
a viability quality inhering in a population by virtue of the bearer's long term survival inability .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's ability to survive or the long term survival ability of a given population .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance from one side of an object to another side which is opposite .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking organisation .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval with two axes of symmetry ,  as produced by a conical section .
a pattern quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the correspondence in size ,  shape ,  and relative position of the bearer's parts on opposite sides of a dividing line or median plane or about a center or axis .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably higher than its width .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to varying or changing .
a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of the temporal extent between the starting and ending point .
a 2 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's two dimensional extent .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having equal proportion around a central point or axis .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having spines ,  thorns or similar thin projections on its surface .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's number of homologous sets of chromosomes in the nucleus or primary chromosome - containing compartment of the cell ,  each set essentially coding for all the biological traits of the organism .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing more than two homologous sets of chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing an integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  possibly excluding the sex - determining chromosomes .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer includes all its components .
a broken quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being broken open .
a pattern inhering in a surface by virtue of the bearer's being marked by the presence of dots ,  punctures ,  points or pits .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a mass which is lower than normal or average .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted in form .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being gathered or tending to gather into a mass or whole .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distributed or spread over a considerable extent .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in two dimensions .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being extended on all sides of another entity simultaneously .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having three angles .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's forming two equal obtuse triangles with a short side in common .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's participation in movement .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape of features present on its surface or outer shell .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits shape variation or change .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits size variation or change .
a variability of size which is relatively high .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being partly divided into a determinate number of regions .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
an occurrence which is relatively high .
an occurrence which is relatively low .
an area which is relatively high .
an area which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being arranged like rays or radii ;  radiating from a common center .
having extra or fewer parts .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being at the edge or boundary of a related entity .
a lobed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into or having two lobes .
a quality inhering in a bearer that is shaped in the form of a fan .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being arranged in a systematic fashion .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located in a position equidistant from edges .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a shape constituting a transition between a rectangle and a circle ;  a closed curve ,  of which the circle and ellipse are special cases ,  whose parametric equation is x = a .cos2 / rt ,  y = b .cos2 / rt
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
the temporal relation between the end of the process with respect to a reference process .
the temporal relation between the start of the process with respect to a reference process .
having a shape that resembles a many - lobed "berry , " such as a raspberry .
a phenotype observation at the level of a population of cells
an observation where the phenotype is described in terms of a biological process ,  a cell population ,  a whole cell or a subcellular structure that bears a particular quality .
a phenotype observation at the level of the whole cell relating to the cell's shape ,  size or structure
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular process
an increase or decrease in the number of specified components within a cell
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular component relating to the components size
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular component relating to the components shape
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular component relating to the components structure
a phenotype relating to the ability of a cell survive or to develop normally
a cell phenotype where the cell is viable
a cell phenotype where the cell is not viable
a phenotype observation at the level of the whole cell relating to the cell's nucleation
a phenotype observation where a cell is multinucleate ,  e .g .
a phenotype observation at the level of any constituent part of the cytoskeleton ,  a cellular scaffolding or skeleton that maintains cell shape ,  enables some cell motion  ( using structures such as flagella and cilia )  ,  and plays important roles in both intra - cellular transport  ( e .g .
a phenotype observation at the level of any constituent part of the endoplasmic reticulum ,  the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
a phenotype observation at the level of any constituent part of the golgi apparatus ,  a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack
a phenotype observation at the level of any constituent part of a mitochondrion ,  a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
a phenotype observation at the level of any constituent part of the nucleus ,  a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular organelle relating to the organelle's shape
a phenotype observation at the level of the nucleus relating to the ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a phenotype where the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules is observed
a phenotype observation at the level of a cell cycle
a phenotype where the cell death process process is observed
a phenotype observation of a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
a phenotype of a cell involving its translation from one location to another
a phenotype observation of the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
a phenotype observation of the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
a phenotype observation of chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
a phenotype observations where any process in which an organelle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a phenotype observation where a process modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
a phenotype observation of a process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
a phenotype observation of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
an increased number of specified cellular components relative to normal
a decrease in number of specified cellular components relative to normal
a phenotype observation where the cleavage of dna during apoptosis ,  which usually occurs in two stages: cleavage into fragments of about 50 kbp followed by cleavage between nucleosomes to yield 200 bp fragments .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the cell is apoptotic
groups of cells gathered or tending to gather into a mass or whole .
number of cells in a population phenotype
the population has an increased number of cells with respect to normal
the population has a decreased number of cells with respect to normal
increased number of cells in s phase mitosis
a population of cells where a specifcied biological process is occuring or is observed .
increased cell numbers in g1
increased number of cells in g2m
decreased number of cells in g1 phase
decreased number of cells in g2m phase
decreased number of cells in s phase
a phenotype observation at the level of focal adhesions where the components number has decreased .
a phenotype observation where the focal adhesion is located in a position equidistant from the edges of the cell
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular component relating to the components position in the cell
a phenotype observation where the focal adhesions's position is at the edge or boundary of a related entity .
a phenotype observation at the level of filopodia where the components number has decreased .
a phenotype observation at the level of microtubules where the components number has decreased .
a phenotype observation at the level of dendritic branches where the components number has decreased .
population of cells with protrusions
an increase in number of any cell projection relative to normal
increased number of cells in population with projections
a phenotype observation at the level of cell projections where the components number has decreased .
decreased number of cells in population with projections
a phenotype observation at the level of filopodia where the components number has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the cell is elongated ,  with a length notably greater than its width
cells in population with a length notably greater than their width
a phenotype observation at the level of lamellipodia where the components number has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of lamellipodia where the components number has decreased .
increased lamellipodia cells in population phenotype
decreased lamellipodia cells in population phenotype
a phenotype observation at the level of the whole cell relating to the cell's ploidy
a cell phenotype with more than two homologous sets of chromosomes .
a phenotype observation at the level of athe s phase of the mitotic cell cycle
a phenotype observation at the level of a g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle
a phenotype observation at the level of the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle
a phenotype observation at the level of a cell cycle phase
increased number of polyploid cells in population
a phenotype observation at the level of focal adhesions where the components number has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of nucleoli where the components number has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of nucleoli where the components number has decreased .
more cells with decreased number of nucleoli
increased number of nucleoli in population phenotype
a phenotype observation at the level of microtubules where the components number has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of the phagosomes ,  a membrane - bounded intracellular vesicle that arises from the ingestion of particulate material by phagocytosis .
a phenotype observation where phagosomes are absent
a phenotype observation at the level of the actin filaments ,  a filamentous structure formed of a two - stranded helical polymer of the protein actin and associated proteins .
a phenotype observation at the level of actin filaments where the components number has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of actin filaments where the components number has decreased .
increased number of actin filament cells in population
decreased number of actin filament phenotypes in population
a phenotype observation where the cytoskeleton is located in a position equidistant from the edges of the cell
a phenotype observation where the nucleus is located in a position equidistant from the edges of the cell
a phenotype observation where the nucleus is distributed or spread over a considerable extent .
a phenotype observation at the level of nucleus consisting of blebbing of the nucleus and dna fragmentation due to the cell undergoing a specific form of programmed cell death termed apoptosis .
a phenotype observation where the nucleus is distorted in form
a phenotype observation where the nucleus's position is at the edge or boundary of a related entity .
a phenotype observation where the cytoskeleton's position is at the edge or boundary of a related entity .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the shape is abnormal
a lobed quality inhering in a nucleus by virtue of the nucleus being divided into or having two lobes .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the cell is round
a phenotype observation of the length of the focal adhesion is notably higher than the width .
a phenotype observation of the length of the nucleus is notably higher than the width .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the cell is arrow shaped ,  with a wide front and a sharp tail ,  displaying monopolar cell growth
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the cell has a triangular shape ,  with a wide front and a sharp tail ,  displaying cell motility
a phenotype observation where the shape of the nucleus has every part of the surface or the circumference equidistant from the center .
a phenotype observation at the level of the nuclear body ,  an extra - nucleolar nuclear domains usually visualized by confocal microscopy and fluorescent antibodies to specific proteins .
a phenotype observation where the nuclear body size is relatively high .
a phenotype observation where the nuclear body size is relatively low .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell size where a cell is larger with respect to normal / wild - type
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell size where a cell is smaller with respect to normal / wild - type
a phenotype observation at the level of the golgi where the golgi's volume has decreased .
a phenotype observation at the level of the golgi where the golgi's volume has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of a cilium where the components length has decreased .
a phenotype observation at the level of a cilium where the components length has increased .
a phenotype observation where the size of the focal adhesion has decreased .
a phenotype observation where the size of the focal adhesion has increased .
a phenotype observation where the area of the focal adhesion has decreased .
a phenotype observation where the area of the focal adhesion has increased .
a phenotype observation where the length of the focal adhesion has decreased .
a phenotype observation where the length of the focal adhesion has increased .
a phenotype observation where the size of the nucleus has increased
a phenotype observation where the size of the nucleus has decreased
a phenotype of a cell that has both an increased nuclei size phenotypes and a  g1 phase phenotype
a phenotype of a cell that has both a decreased nuclei size phenotypes and a  g1 phase phenotype
a phenotype observation where the thickness of the dendritic branches has increased .
a phenotype observation where the thickness of the dendritic branches has decreased .
a phenotype observation where the microtublue structure is disorganised
a phenotype observation at the level of podosomes ,  an actin - rich adhesion structure characterized by formation upon cell substrate contact and localization at the substrate - attached part of the cell .
a phenotype observation where the cytoskeleton is symmetric ,  having equal proportions around a central point or axis .
phenotype observation organised by specific named organelles .
a phenotype observation where the structure of the endoplasmic reticulum is fragmented or broken .
a phenotype observation at the level of the golgi where the golgi's structure is broken
a phenotype observation where the structure of the mitochondria is fragmented or broken .
a phenotype observation where the nuclear's color brightness is relatively high .
a phenotype observation where the structure of the nucleus is fragmented or broken .
a phenotype observation where nuclear envelopes form around single chromosomes or small sets of chromosomes .
a phenotype observation where the shape of the nucleus is abnormal
a phenotype observation at the level of the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle where the nuclei are decreased in size with respect to normal
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular component where the cell component is absent
a phenotype of a cell population relating to the ability of the cells to live and develop normally
increased number of viable cell phenotype in a population
decreased number of viable cell phenotype in a population
a population phenotype relating to the size ,  shape or structure of the cells within a population
a phenotype that results in the absence of cytokinesis
a phenotype observation at the level of cytokinesis
a phenotype observation of the process resulting in the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells .
a phenotype where the cell division process occurs at a higher rate
a phenotype where the cell division process occurs at a lower rate
a phenotype observation of the catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
a phenotype observation where the occurane of telomerase activity is decreased
a phenotype observation where the occurane of telomerase activity is increased
a phenotype of a cell that is arrested at the g0 / 1 transition
a phenotype observation where the endoplasmic reticulum is oriented in the cell with extremities at either end of the main axis .
a phenotype observation at the level of a molecular component of a cell
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell dna
a phenotyoe observation where the nucleus has an irregular shape that is not ovoid .
a phenotype observation at the level of the site of double - strand break ,  a region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred .
a phenotype observation at the level of double strand breaks where the components number has decreased .
a phenotype observation where the number of double - strand breaks has increased
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular component where the components size has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular component where the components size has decreased .
a phenotype observation where the morphogenetic process that results in flattening of a cell as a consequence of its adhesion to a substrate .
a phenotype observation of a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
a phenotype observation at the level of axons where the components number has decreased .
a phenotype observation at the level of axons where the components number has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of the mitotic cell cycle
a phenotype of a cell where a particular process is arrested ,  or ends earlier in time than expected
a phenotype of a cell where the m phase of mitotic cell cycle process is arrested ,  or ends earlier in time than expected
a phenotype observation where mitosis is delayed
a phenotype of a cell is arrested in g2 pahse of the cell cycle .
a phenotype of a cell where the s pahse process is arrested ,  or ends earlier in time than expected
a phenotype observation where the duration of the exit from mitosis is increased
a phenotype observation at the level of a g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle
a phenotype observation at the level of the mitotic metaphase of the cell cycle
increased number of mitotic metaphase cells in population phenotype
decreased number of mitotic metaphase cells in population phenotype
a phenotype where the cell cycle is in some way abnormal
a phenotype observation where a cell is binucleate ,  e .g .
a phenotype observation where the duration of the mitotic chromosome condensation is increased
a phenotype observation where the duration of the mitotic chromosome condensation is decreased
a phenotype resulting from the absence of mitotic chromosome decondensation
a phenotype resulting in the absence of mitotic process
a phenotype observation at the level of mitotic chromosome condensation
a phenotype observation at the level of mitotic chromosome decondensation
a phenotype where the apoptosis process is observed
increased number of apoptosis phenotypes in population
decreased number of apoptosis phenotypes in population
a phenotype observation where the thickness of the axon has increased .
a phenotype observation where the thickness of the axon has decreased .
a phenotype observation at the level of a axon where the components length has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of a axon where the components length has decreased .
a phenotype where the cell migration process occurs at an increased rate ,  typically observed as a faster moving cell
a phenotype where the cell migration process occurs at an redcued rate ,  typically observed as a slower moving cell
a phenotype observation at the level of the whole cell relating to the cell's movement
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell movement where cell movement is increased
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell movement where the cell moves faster than normal / wild type .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell movement where the distance travelled by the cell is increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell movement where cell movement is decreased
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell movement where the distance travelled by the cell is decreased .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell movement where the cell moves slower than normal / wild type .
increased number of cells in population phenotype
a phenotype of a cell contraction caused by an actin filament - based process in which cytoplasmic actin filaments slide past one another resulting in contraction of all or part of the cell body .
a phenotype where the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore is observed
a phenotype observation of the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
a phenotype observation where the rate of release of proteins from a cell is increased
a phenotype observation where the rate of release of proteins from a cell is decreased
a phenotype observation at the level of the nucleus relating to the nuclear morphology
a phenotype observation at the level of the golgi relating to the golgi's morphology
a phenotype observation at the level of the cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
a phenotype observation at the level of a cilium relating to the components shape ,  size or structure
a phenotype observation at the level of a single or whole cell .
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular component
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the cell has a geometric shape with straight edges
fragmented and condensed dna during or following apoptosis
increased occurrence of mitotic cells
decreased occurrence of mitotic cells in population
a phenotype observation at the level of the m phase of the mitotic cell cycle
a phenotype observation where more lamellipoda is localised to one side of the cell with respect to the other
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the cell has a star - like or bristly shape
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the cell has a star - like or bristly shape
a population of cells where the cells exhibit a high variability of size
a population of cells where the cells exhibit a high variability of shape
a phenotype observation at the level of the cortical actin cytoskeleton where the components mass has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cortical actin cytoskeleton where the components mass has decreased .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cortical actin cytoskeleton where the component shows an irregular organization
a phenotype observation at the level of a lamellipodia where the components width has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of a lamellipodia where the components width has decreased .
a phenotype observation where the lamellipodia is shaped in the form of a fan .
a phenotype observation at the level of a cell with an increased amount of lamellipodia .
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular component relating to a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a phenotype observation at the level of the filopodium ;  a thin ,  stiff protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast .
cells not stopping at confluence and growing on top of each other in layers
a phenotype observation at the level of the actin cytoskeleton ,  the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of actin and associated proteins .
a phenotype observation at the level of a actin cytoskeleton where the components mass has increased
a phenotype observation at the level of a actin cytoskeleton where the components mass has decreased .
a phenotype observation where the microtubules form two crescent shaped brackets around the nucleus
a phenotype observation where the microtubules form a ring around the nucleus
a phenotype observation at the level of any stress fibers where the components number has increased .
a phenotype observation where actin is observed as small patches or spots all over the cell
a phenotype observation where a cell has an increased amount of actin observed as small patches or spots all over the cell
a phenotype of a culture in which cells grow as a monolayer that is attached to the culture substrate .
loss of sheet like monolayer leading to empty patches
a phenotype observation where many actin filaments are observed in or around the nucleus
a phenotype observation where many actin filaments are observed in the cytoplasm
a phenotype observation at the level of stress fibers where the components number has increased and formed transverse arcs which are located in the cell cortex
a phenotype observation at the level of stress fibers where the components number has increased and formed a zig zag pattern across the cell
increased cells that are multinucleated
absence of cells
a phenotype observation where the microtubules form a ring around the nucleus
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular component relating to the components shape ,  size or structure
a phenotype of a cell where a particular process is arrested ,  or ends earlier in time than expected
a phenotype of a cell arrested in mitotic metaphase
a phenotype of a cell where a particular process is delayed
a phenotype of a cell where mitotic metaphase is delayed
a phenotype where the cell migration is impaired
a phenotype where the cell migration process occurs for longer ,  typically observed as a cell moving a further distance
a phenotype where the cell migration process duration is reduced ,  typically observed as a cell moving a shorter distance
a phenotype observation at the level of the exit from mitosis
a phenotype observation at the level of a cellular process where the cell process is absent
a phenotype observation of the process in which the cell growth is abnormal
a phenotype observation of the process in which the cell growth is arrested
a phenotype observation where the rate of release of proteins from a cell is mildly decreased
a phenotype observation where the rate of release of proteins from a cell is severly decreased
a phenotype observation where there is an increased occurance of cell spreading
a phenotype observation where there is a mild increase of cell spreading
a phenotype observation where there is a severe increase in cell spreading
a phenotype observation where there is a decreased occurance of cell spreading
a phenotype observation where cell spreading is absent
a phenotype observation where a cell shows a thin and large projected areas ,  with developed matrix adhesions at the cell periphery ,  as opposed to round cells with no or few adhesion sites
a phenotype observation of the process in which the chromosome segregation is abnormal
a phenotype observation at the level of the mitotic prophase of the cell cycle
a phenotype observation where the duration of the mitotic prophase of the cell cycle is increased
a phenotype observation where the duration of the mitotic prophase of the cell cycle is decreased
a phenotype observation where the frequency of a process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of the transcription factor nf - kappab is decreased .
a phenotype observation where the frequency of a process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of the transcription factor nf - kappab is increased .
a phenotype observation where the frequency of a process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of the transcription factor nf - kappab is increased .
a phenotype observation where the release of nf - kappab from specific molecules in the cytoplasm to which it was bound ,  thereby allowing its translocation into the nucleus ,  is abnormal .
a phenotype observation where any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
a phenotype obervation where the nuclear body's color brightness is relatively high .
a phenotype observation where the shape of the focal adhesion has every part of the surface or the circumference equidistant from the center .
a phenotype of a cell that is arrested at mitosis
a population of cells where there is an increased number of large cells in the population
a phenotype observation at the level of the nucleus underoging pyknosis ,  or karyopyknosis ,  consisting of the irreversible condensation of chromatin in the nucleus of a cell undergoing necrosis or apoptosis .
a phenotype of a cell arrested in mitotic prometaphase
a phenotype of a cell where mitotic prometaphase is delayed
a population of cells where the nuclei exhibit a high variability of shape
a phenotype observation where the rate of intracellular protein transport is decreased
a phenotype resulting in the absence of mitotic metaphase process
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell cycle process in which chromosomes are aligned at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the mitotic spindle ,  during mitosis .
a phenotype where an increased formation of a cell surface protrusion ,  such as a lamellipodium or filopodium ,  at the leading edge of a migrating cell is observed .
a phenotype where an increased occurrence of the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another along a substrate such as the extracellular matrix is observed .
a phenotype where an increased occurance of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising microtubules and their associated proteins ,  is observed .
a phenotype observation of the process in which a cell increases in size  due to polarized growth from one end of a cell .
a phenotype observation of the process in which a cell decreases in size  due to polarized growth from one end of a cell .
a phenotype of a cell contraction caused by an actin filament - based process in which cytoplasmic actin filaments slide past one another resulting in mild contraction of all or part of the cell body .
a phenotype where any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in a specific location is observed
a phenotype observation where the shape of the nucleus resembles a many - lobed berry ,  such as a raspberry .
a phenotype of a cell where the rate of dna amplification is increased
a phenotype observation where a cell has an increased amount of dna
a phenotype of a cell in which the biological process resulting in a doubling of the number of centrioles in the cell is affected
a phenotype of a cell in which the biological process resulting in a the number of centrioles is increased
a phenotype of a cell in which the biological process resulting in a the number of centrioles is decreased
a cell that is maintained or propagated in a controlled artificial environment for use in an investigation .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna segregation by mitosis and the beginning of dna synthesis .
the cell cycle phase ,  following g1 ,  during which dna synthesis takes place as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of dna segregation by mitosis .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase and occurs as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase during m phase of mitosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
the region of a chromosome that includes the centromeric dna and associated proteins .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the centromeric region of dna and provides an attachment point for the spindle microtubules .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of its own cells or those of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
the directed killing of a target cell by a leukocyte .
the directed killing of a target cell by a t cell through the release of granules containing cytotoxic mediators or through the engagement of death receptors .
an immune response based on directed amplification of specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process ,  and allowing for enhanced response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
any process of the immune system that can potentially contribute to an immune response .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
an immune system process that functions in the response of an organism to a tumor cell .
the directed killing of a tumor cell by a t cell through the release of granules containing cytotoxic mediators or through the engagement of death receptors .
an immune response mediated by a t cell triggered in response to the presence of a tumor cell .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a leukocyte .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a lymphocyte .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a t cell .
an immune response based on directed amplification of specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process that includes somatic recombination of germline gene segments encoding immunoglobulin superfamily domains ,  and allowing for enhanced responses upon subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by creating internal breaks .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
any microtubule that is part of a mitotic or meiotic spindle ;  anchored at one spindle pole .
any microtubule in the cytoplasm of a cell .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
the cellular metabolic process in which a cell duplicates one or more molecules of dna .
a dna replication process that uses rna as a template for rna - dependent dna polymerases  ( e .g .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cell or subcellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nucleus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nuclear envelope .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the plasma membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a peroxisome .
a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides ;  the process involves condensation of chromosomal dna into a highly compacted form .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell through the i - kappab - kinase  ( ikk )  - dependent activation of nf - kappab .
the activity of binding selectively and non - covalently to and distorting the original structure of dna ,  typically a straight helix ,  into a bend ,  or increasing the bend if the original structure was intrinsically bent due to its sequence .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the endomembrane system .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
a collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell .
a class of nuclear body ,  first seen after silver staining by ramon y cajal in 1903 ,  enriched in small nuclear ribonucleoproteins ,  and certain general rna polymerase ii transcription factors ;  ultrastructurally ,  they appear as a tangle of coiled ,  electron - dense threads roughly 0 .5 micrometers in diameter ;  involved in aspects of snrnp biogenesis ;  the protein coilin serves as a marker for cajal bodies .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
a class of nuclear body ;  they react against sp100 auto - antibodies  ( pml ,  promyelocytic leukemia )  ;  cells typically contain 10 - 30 pml bodies per nucleus ;  alterations in the localization of pml bodies occurs after viral infection .
a discrete extra - nucleolar subnuclear domain ,  20 - 50 in number ,  in which splicing factors are seen to be localized by immunofluorescence microscopy .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any ester bond .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
a nonmembrane - bound oligomeric protein complex that participates in bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
a localization process that acts on a protein complex ;  the complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a chromatin - associated multiprotein complex containing polycomb group proteins .
the assembly of a bleb ,  a cell extension caused by localized decoupling of the cytoskeleton from the plasma membrane and characterized by rapid formation ,  rounded shape ,  and scarcity of organelles within the protrusion .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the golgi apparatus .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a microtubule .
the region of a neuron that includes the cell body  ( cell soma )  and the dendrite ,  but excludes the axon .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
discrete subnuclear bodies in the interchromatin nucleoplasmic space ,  often located adjacent to nuclear specks .
the directed movement of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab signaling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of  - kappab kinase / nf - kappab signaling .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the cytoskeleton .
the membrane organization process that joins two lipid bilayers to form a single membrane ,  involving only one organism .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane ,  involving only one organism .
the cell cycle process by which a cell in g2 phase commits to m phase .
a distinct period or stage in a biological process or cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
the cell cycle phase ,  following metaphase ,  during which the chromosomes separate and migrate towards the poles of the spindle .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase during m phase of mitosis and meiosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when mitotic prophase begins .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the mitochondrion .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an organelle .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the endoplasmic reticulum .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  the centrosome .
the directed movement of nitrogen - containing compounds into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location on or in an organelle .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location in a membrane .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location in the plasma membrane .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location in a peroxisome .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location in a vacuole .
a cellular protein localization process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location within the microtubule cytoskeleton .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the separation of a single continuous membrane into two membranes .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a nuclear pore .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location within a nuclear envelope .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location within a cellular bud neck .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of nucleic acid  ( dna or rna )  .
a cellular process that results in the assembly of one or more centrioles .
the attachment ,  via cell adhesion molecules ,  of a cell to either another cell of the same organism ,  or to an underlying substrate of the same organism such as the extracellular matrix .
any subdivision of a chromosome along its length .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the mitotic cell cycle is divided .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of nuclear chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a nucleolus .
a localization which involves only one organism .
a cellular localization which involves only one organism .
an intracellular transport which involves only one organism .
an organelle organization which involves only one organism .
a nuclear import which involves only one organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
a process that is part of the mitotic cell cycle .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  the location of an actin cytoskeleton .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  the location of an actin filament bundle .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a nuclear body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein targeting .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a vacuolar membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the nuclear periphery .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the nucleoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or being marked by a curve or smoothly rounded bend .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sharp or tapered end or point .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting concentration .
a concentration which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a concentration which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating in a point or edge .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being gradually narrower or thinner toward one end .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a degree of bending .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a short ,  stocky build .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of two curves ,  in opposite directions .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably lower than its width .
a quality that that inheres in a population of cells
a quality that inheres in or specifically depends on a cellular process ,  a cell population ,  a whole cell or a subcellular structure .
a population of cells where a specifcied biological process is occuring or is observed .
single cell with protrusions
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell size where a cell is smaller with respect to normal / wild - type
phenotype observation organised by specific named organelles .
a phenotype of a cell population relating to the ability of the cells to live and develop normally
a population phenotype relating to the size ,  shape or structure of the cells within a population
a phenotype observation where the thickness of the axon has decreased .
a phenotype of a culture in which cells grow as a monolayer that is attached to the culture substrate .
a phenotype where any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in a specific location is observed
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the cell is in a shape that consists of two curves in opposite directions .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the cell is curved along the long axis .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the shape is in the form of a pear .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the shape is stubby .
a phenotype observation at the level of the microtubule cytoskeleton relating to the components shape ,  size or structure
a physical cellular phenotype  in interphase of the mitotic cell cycle where the the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the microtubule cytoskeleton is observed .
a physical cellular phenotype which cells form cytoplasmic microtubules that are longer than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype which cells form cytoplasmic microtubules that are shorter than normal .
a phenotype observation at the level of microtubule bundle where the components number has increased .
a phenotype observation at the level of the microtubule relating to the components shape ,  size or structure
a phenotype observation at the level of the microtubule relating to the components shape ,  size or structure observed in mitotic interphase .
an increased number of interphase microtubule phenotype in population .
a phenotype observation at the level of the microtubule spindle relating to the components shape ,  size or structure
a phenotype observation at the level of the microtubule spindle relating to the components shape ,  size or structure observed during metaphase .
an increased number of metaphase microtubule spindles in population .
a phenotype observation at the level of the microtubule where the microtuble are  narrow ,  with the two opposite margins parallel .
a phenotype obesrvation relating to the orgnaistation of cellular componets in the cell .
a phenotype observation relating to the organisation of cellular components in the cell .
a phenotype observation relating to the organisation of microtubules in the cell ,  where the microtubules are organized into an array .
an increased number of interphase microtubule array phenotype in population .
a phenotype observation at the level of interphase of the cell cycle
a phenotype observation at the level of interphase of the cell cycle
a phenotype observation at the level of anaphase of the cell cycle
a decreased number of metaphase microtubule spindles in population .
a decreased number of interphase microtubule array phenotypes in population .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within the golgi apparatus .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a cellular bud neck .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within the cell periphery .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within the cytosol .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within the endoplasmic reticulum .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a mitochondrion .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within the nuclear periphery .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within the nucleolus .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within the nucleus .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a peroxisome .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within punctate foci
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a vacuole .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a vacuolar membrane .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within the nuclear body .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a cajal body .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a nuclear speckle .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a paraspeckle .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a pml body .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a polycomb body .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a sam68 nuclear body .
a decreased number of post - anaphase or g1 phase microtubule arrays in population phenotype
a decreased number of post - mitotic interphase or s phase microtubule arrays in population phenotype
an increased number of post - anaphase or g1 phase microtubule arrays in population phenotype
an increased number of post - mitotic interphase or s phase microtubule arrays in population phenotype
a phenotype observation of respone to stress process within a cell .
a phenotype observation of a process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the population has a decreased number of cells forming cell - cell aggregates .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is absent or decreased from the expected localisation of protein localisation process
a phenotype observation at the level of a response to stimulus process
a phenotype observation at the level of a response to stimulus process
a phenotype observation at the level of a response to stimulus process
a phenotype observation at the level of telophase of the cell cycle
a phenotype observation at the level of mitotic telophase of the cell cycle
a phenotype of a cell where the mitotic telophase process is arrested ,  or ends earlier in time than expected
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a centrosome .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a nuclear pore .
a collection of qualities that inhere in  any constituent part of the kinetochore ,  a multisubunit complex that is located at the centromeric region of dna and provides an attachment point for the spindle microtubules .
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell shape where the cell is fan - shaped
a phenotype observation at the level of the cell protein
 a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell differs from normal .
 a cell phenotype in which the amount of polypetide measured in a cell differs from normal .
 a cell phenotype in which the amount of polypetide measured in a cell nucleus differs from normal .
 a cell phenotype in which the amount of polypetide measured in a cell nucleus increases from normal .
 a cell phenotype in which the amount of polypetide measured in a cell nucleus descreases from normal .
a phenotype observation where any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of proteins from the cytoplasm into the nucleus .
a phenotype observation where any process that starts or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of proteins from the cytoplasm into the nucleus .
a phenotype where the mitotic cell cycle phase is abnormal
a physical cellular phenotype  in interphase of the mitotic cell cycle where the the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the microtubule cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is not localized within a cellular bud neck .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within an actin filament .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within an intermediate filament .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a microtubule .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized the nuclear membrane .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within the nucleolar fibrillar center .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within the nucloplasm .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within the plasma membrane .
a phenotype observation in which a protein is observed to be localized within a vesicle .
a phenotype where the the cells are killing either its own cells or those of another organism .
a phenotype where the the cells are killing either its own cells or those of another organism .
the population has an increased number of cells forming cell - cell aggregates .
a phenotype observation where the area of the nucelus has increased .
a phenotype observation where the area of the nucelus has decreased .
a population of cells where there is an increased number of small cells in the population
a phenotype observation where a cellular componet is localised to one side of the cell with respect to the other
 a cell phenotype in which the amount of polypetide measured in a cell  is decreased from normal .
 a cell phenotype in which the amount of polypetide measured in a cell  is increased from normal .
a population of cells where there is is an increased number of cells with a decreased nucleus to cell area ratio
a population of cells where there is is an increased number of cells with an increased nucleus to cell area ratio
