the ontocog is the semantic web service supported by cao .
background data set is all the proteins with cog category assignment from the same species with user defined proteins .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take
software is a plan specification which is a series of encoded instructions that can be directly executed by a processing unit or transformed in to a form that can be .
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a smallish ,  word - like datum . . .
an information content entity is an entity that is generically dependent on some artifact and stands in relation of aboutness to some entity
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
a directive information entity that when concretized it is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives ,  in part by taking the actions specified .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a classified data set is a data set that is produced as the output of a class prediction data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned class labels .
a clustered data set is a data set that is produced as the output of a class discovery data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned discovered class labels .
a background corrected data set is a data set that is produced as the output of a background correction data transformation .
a class prediction data transformation  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class prediction .
a background correction data transformation  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation that has the objective background correction .
a statistical hypothesis test data transformation is a data transformation that has objective statistical hypothesis test .
is a data transformation objective where the aim is to estimate statistical significance with the aim of proving or disproving a hypothesis by means of some data transformation
a data transformation is a process which produces output data from input data
a data transformation objective is an objective specification that a data transformation may have towards which the realization of that transformation is directed .
a correction objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to correct for error ,  noise or other impairments to the input of the data transformation or derived from the data transformation itself
a background correction objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to remove irrelevant contributions from the measured signal ,  e .g .
a class discovery data transformation  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class discovery .
fisher's exact test is a data transformation used to determine if there are nonrandom associations between two fisher's exact test is a statistical significance test used in the analysis of contingency tables where sample sizes are small where the significance of the deviation from a null hypothesis can be calculated exactly ,  rather than relying on an approximation that becomes exact in the limit as the sample size grows to infinity ,  as with many statistical tests .
a class discovery objective  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to organize input data   ( typically vectors of attributes )  into classes ,  where the number of classes and their specifications are not known a priori .
the chi - square test is a data transformation with the objective of statistical hypothesis testing ,  in which the sampling distribution of the test statistic is a chi - square distribution when the null hypothesis is true ,  or any in which this is asymptotically true ,  meaning that the sampling distribution  ( if the null hypothesis is true )  can be made to approximate a chi - square distribution as closely as desired by making the sample size large enough .
