a disease is a disposition to undergo pathological processes that exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
an endocrine or hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal cortex does not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases ,  the hormone aldosterone .
a genetic deficiency of any early component of the classical pathway  ( c1q ,  c1r / s ,  c2 ,  c4 ,  and c3 )  that is associated with autoimmune diseases due to the failure of clearance of immune complexes  ( ic )  and apoptotic materials ,  and the impairment of normal humoral response .
urination during sleep .
hypophosphatemic rickets is a group of genetic diseases characterized by hypophosphatemia ,  rickets ,  and normal serum levels of calcium .
a microphthalmia that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a common presentation of craniosynostosis and polysyndactyly .
abnormal descent of a pelvic organ resulting in the protrusion of the organ beyond its normal anatomical confines .
a developmental brain abnormality characterized by an excessive amount of small convolutions on the surface of the brain and cognitive dysfunction .
unusually early sexual maturity .
auriculo - condylar syndrome  ( acs )  presents with bilateral external ear malformations  ( 'question mark' ears )  ,  mandibular condyle hypoplasia ,  microstomia ,  micrognathia ,  microglossia and facial asymmetry .
bifid nose is a rare congenital malformation of presumed autosomal dominant or recessive inheritance characterized by clefting of the nose ranging from a minimally noticeable groove in the columella to complete clefting of the underlying bones and cartilage  ( resulting in two half noses )  with a usually adequate airway .
a rare genetic brain malformation characterized by displacement of the brain stem and cerebellum through the foramen magnum .
geleophysic dysplasia is a rare skeletal dysplasia characterized by short stature ,  prominent abnormalities in hands and feet ,  and a characteristic facial appearance  ( described as  \ "happy'' )  .
a rare inherited disorder affecting the neurofilaments .
the immunodeficiency ,  centromeric region instability ,  facial anomalies syndrome  ( icf )  is a rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by immunodeficiency ,  although b cells are present ,  and by characteristic rearrangements in the vicinity of the centromeres  ( the juxtacentromeric heterochromatin )  of chromosomes 1 and 16 and sometimes 9 .
keratosis follicularis spinulosa decalvans is a rare genodermatosis occurring during infancy or childhood ,  predominantly affecting males ,  and characterized by diffuse follicular hyperkeratosis associated with progressive cicatricial alopecia of the scalp ,  eyebrows and eyelashes .
mosaic variegated aneuploidy  ( mva )  syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by multiple mosaic aneuploidies that leads to a variety of phenotypic abnormalities and cancer predisposition .
a congenital cardiac defect in which two heart vessels are reversed  ( transposed )  .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of sequestering of triglyceride .
a spectrum of hip abnormalities commonly presenting in infancy involving the relationship between the femoral head and the acetabulum and that includes subluxation or dislocation at rest or upon provocation .
a grouping for huntington disease and similar diseases .
neu - laxova syndrome  ( nls )  is a rare ,  multiple malformation syndrome characterised by severe intrauterine growth retardation  ( iugr )  ,  severe microcephaly with a sloping forehead ,  severe ichthyosis  ( collodion baby type )  ,  and facial dysmorphism .
a congenital myasthenic syndrome with a finding of tubular aggregates in myofibers .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of a rapid grossly irregular ventricular rhythm with marked variability in qrs cycle length ,  morphology ,  and amplitude .
a disorder in which there is a failure to regenerate the active glucocorticoid cortisol from cortisone via 11beta - hsd1 .
zimmermann - laband syndrome  ( zls )  is a rare disorder characterized by gingival fibromatosis ,  coarse facial appearance ,  and absence or hypoplasia of nails or terminal phalanges of hands and feet .
an adult - onset movement disorder characterized by bradykinesia ,  dysarthria and muscle rigidity .
a hypercalcemia disease that occurs between 28 days to one year of life . .
acute form of gonococcal seminal vesiculitis .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of carbohydrate metabolism .
a form of ehrlichiosis associated with ehrlichia chaffeensis ,  an obligate intracellular pathogen affecting monocytes and macrophages .
an infectious disease caused by infection with rickettsia conorii subsp .
an infectious disease caused by infection with rickettsia conorii subsp .
a spotted fever that has material basis in rickettsia honei ,  which is transmitted by cayenne ticks  ( amblyomma cajennense )  .
a spotted fever that has material basis in rickettsia japonica ,  which is transmitted by ticks  ( dermacentor taiwanensis and haemaphysalis flava )  .
a spotted fever that has material basis in rickettsia parkeri ,  which is transmitted by gulf coast tick  ( amblyomma maculatum )  .
a anthrax infection that involves the oropharynx .
an infection caused by erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae that is almost wholly restricted to persons who in their occupation handle infected fish ,  shellfish ,  poultry ,  or meat .
a mild form of bubonic plague characterized by symptoms such as mild fever and lymphadenitis .
adiaspiromycosis is a rare fungal infection in the lung and is caused by inhalation of spores of the saprophytic soil fungus chrysosporium parvum var crescens  ( previously known as emmonsia crescens )  .
an aspergillosis that is a serious fungal infection of the lung with pneumonia caused by aspergillus ,  which spreads to other parts of the body through bloodstream in patients with acute leukemia and recipients of tissue transplants .
a congestive cardiomyopathy caused by a combination of dietary deficiency of selenium and the presence of a mutated strain of coxsackievirus .
a dermatophytosis that involves the beard .
a dermatophyte infection of the hair that infects the hair surface .
a dermatophyte infection of the hair that nvade the hair shaft and internalize into the hair cell .
a tinea corporis that results in fungal infection located in skin ,  has material basis in trichophyton concentricum ,  which is characterized by ring - like growth in overlapping circles that may have an autosomal dominant genetic predisposition .
a rare but potentially life - threatening disorder characterized by the proliferation of histiocytes and macrophages and phagocytosis of red blood cells ,  white blood cells ,  and platelets .
a dengue disease that involves the most severe form of dengue fever ,  has material basis in dengue virus  [ ncbitaxon:12637 ]  with four serotypes  ( dengue virus 1 ,  2 ,  3 and 4 )  ,  which are transmitted by aedes mosquito bite .
watery voluminous diarrhea resulting from an imbalance between ion and water secretion and absorption .
a diarrhea that results from the presence of osmotically active ,  poorly absorbed solutes in the bowel lumen that inhibit normal water and electrolyte absorption .
a diarrhea that results from either increased or decreased motility in the bowel .
an diarrhea  ( disease )  involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the intestinal mucosa .
either of two diseases resulting from fungal infection of the hair shafts .
a mycosis that involves the integument and its appendages ,  including hair and nails .
a mycosis that involves subcutaneous tissue .
a mycosis that involves the lungs ,  abdominal viscera ,  bones and or central nervous system .
acute form of diarrhea .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the pharyngeal tonsil .
fungus infection of the external ear ,  usually by aspergillus species
an inflammation of both larynx and trachea .
a type of lung inflammation resulting from the aspiration of food ,  liquid ,  or gastric contents into the upper respiratory tract .
a aspergillosis that involves the lung .
a disease involving the lower respiratory tract .
an urogenital tuberculosis involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the fallopian tube .
a genetic disease that is the result of one or more abnormal alleles and may be dominant  ( a single copy of the abnormal allele is sufficient to give rise to the disease )  ,  semi - dominant ,  or recessive  ( requiring both copies of the gene to have an abnormal allele )  .
a disease caused by infection with powassan virus .
a viral infectious disease that is a hemorrhagic fever ,  has material basis in whitewater arroyo virus ,  which is transmitted by white - throated woodrats  ( neotoma albigula )  .
a viral hepatitis that results in inflammation ,  located in liver ,  has material basis in human herpesvirus 4 and has symptom headache ,  has symptom fatigue ,  has symptom fever ,  has symptom abdominal pain ,  has symptom nausea ,  and has symptom jaundice .
a infectious disease involving the naegleria fowleri .
granulomatous amebic encephalitis is a life - threatening infection of the brain caused by the free - living amoebae acanthamoeba spp . ,  balamuthia mandrillaris and sappinia pedata .
a disease caused by infection with philophthalmus .
a parasitic infection that develops in the intermediate hosts of some tapeworm species  ( taenia multiceps ,  t . serialis ,  t . brauni ,  or t . glomerata )  and are caused by the coenurus ,  the larval stage of these worms .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with mesocestoides .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with acanthocephala .
an infection that is caused by the raccoon nematode baylisascaris procyonis ,  which is transmitted by the ingestion of embryonated eggs in contaminated soil ;  symptoms depend on larval migration sites  ( visceral organs ,  eye ,  or brain )  provoking severe inflammatory responses .
a disease caused by infection with dioctophyme renale .
a disease caused by infection with thelazia .
an myiasis caused by infection with oestrus ovis .
a disease caused by infection with basidiobolus .
a disease caused by infection with talaromyces marneffei .
fungal infections caused by trichosporon that may become systemic especially in an immunocompromised host .
a disease caused by infection with ichthyosporea .
a systemic mycosis that arises from infection in an immunologically normal host .
a condition in which the ocular image of an object as seen by one eye differs in size and shape from that seen by the other .
a disease caused by infection with alkhumra hemorrhagic fever virus .
lower than normal levels of phosphates in the circulating blood .
a bacterial infectious disease that results in infection by bacteria which are part of the normal human flora when one or more of the defense mechanisms designed to restrict them from the usually sterile internal tissues are breached by accident ,  by intent  ( surgery )  ,  or by an underlying metabolic or an infectious disorder .
a tularemia that involves the lymph node .
a tularemia that results in bacteremia and has symptom fever ,  has symptom chills ,  has symptom myalgia ,  has symptom malaise ,  and has symptom weight loss .
a disease caused by infection with bartonella bacilliformis .
a cutaneous infection caused by mycobacterium ulcerans .
abnormally high level of phosphate in the blood .
a bacterial infection caused by rickettsia typhi .
a disease caused by infection with rickettsia helvetica .
an ehlrichiosis caused by neorickettsia sennetsu .
a congenital syphilis that is manifested between 0 and 2 years old .
nodular goiter characterized by more than one discrete tissue mass .
a tertiary neurosyphilis that results when chronic meningoencephalitis causes destruction of cortical parenchyma .
a tertiary neurosyphilis that results in inflammation located in arteries of the brain or located in arteries of spinal cord .
an infection that is due to human herpesvirus  ( hhv )  types 6 or 7 ;  it is characterized by 3 - 5 days of high fever followed by the acute onset of a rosy ,  pink ,  non - pruritic ,  macular rash that is predominantly on the neck and trunk .
a paralytic poliomyelitis in which the site of paralysis is the spinal cord .
a paralytic poliomyelitis in which the site of paralysis is the bulbospinal tract .
a poliomyelitis that results in destruction located in motor neurons of central nervous system ,  has material basis in human poliovirus 1 ,  has material basis in human poliovirus 2 ,  or has material basis in human poliovirus 3 ,  which are transmitted by ingestion of food or water contaminated with feces ,  or transmitted by direct contact with the oral secretions .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with o'nyong - nyong virus .
a disease caused by infection with barmah forest virus .
a disease caused by infection with ross river virus .
a disease caused by infection with oropouche virus .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of methionine catabolic process .
ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy  ( ucmd )  is characterized by early - onset ,  generalized and slowly progressive muscle weakness ,  multiple proximal joint contractures ,  marked hypermobility of the distal joints and normal intelligence .
spondylocostal dysplasia is a rare genetic disorder characterized by defects of the bones of the spine  ( vertebrae )  and abnormalities of the ribs .
a tertiary syphilis that is characterized by granulomatous lesions ,  called gummas ,  which are characterized by a center of necrotic tissue with a rubbery texture .
primary congenital glaucoma  ( pcg )  is characterized by elevated intraocular pressure  ( iop )  ,  enlargement of the globe  ( buphthalmos )  ,  edema ,  and opacification of the cornea with rupture of descemet's membrane  ( haab's striae )  ,  thinning of the anterior sclera and iris atrophy ,  anomalously deep anterior chamber ,  and structurally normal posterior segment except for progressive glaucomatous optic atrophy .
a parasitic infection caused by tapeworms of the genus taenia .
a tuberculosis that occurs at body sites other than the lung .
an extrapulmonary tuberculosis that is located in gastrointestinal tract ,  located in peritoneum ,  located in omentum ,  located in mesentery ,  located in liver ,  located in spleen or located in pancreas .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the oral cavity .
stage 0 carcinoma of the pharynx according to the american joint committee on cancer ,  6th ,  7th ,  and 8th editions .
a carcinoma in situ involving a gall bladder .
a carcinoma in situ involving a bile duct .
a carcinoma in situ involving a bronchus .
a malignant neoplasm involving the respiratory system
a leydig cell tumor characterized by large tumor size ,  the presence of cytologic atypia ,  increased mitotic activity ,  necrosis ,  and vascular invasion .
a sertoli cell tumor of the testis or the ovary which metastasizes to another anatomic site .
a malignant form of sertoli - leydig cell tumor .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm arising in the paranasal sinus .
a infiltrating urothelial carcinoma that involves the renal pelvis .
a benign neoplasm that involves the respiratory system .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the male or female reproductive system .
a benign abnormal growth of the cells that comprise the bladder .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm arising from any part of the digestive system .
a well - differentiated neuroendocrine tumor arising from the digestive system .
anemia in which the circulating rbcs are smaller than the usual size of rbcs  ( microcytic )  and have decreased red color  ( hypochromic )  .
a rare genetic disorder characterized by macular degeneration in the retina resulting in progressive loss of central vision with retention of the peripheral vision .
a fetal alcohol spectrum disorder that results in most ,  but not all ,  of the growth deficiency and / or craniofacial features of fetal alcohol syndrome including central nervous system dysfunction due to prenatal alcohol exposure .
a physical or cognitive mental abnormality caused by maternal alcohol consumption and its toxic effect on the developing embryo during pregnancy .
a form of cerebral palsy wherein spasticity is the exclusive impairment present .
a form of cerebral palsy caused by damage to cerebellar structures .
a subtype of cerebral palsy characterized by both the tight muscle tone of spastic cerebral palsy and the writhing ,  involuntary muscle movements of athetoid cerebral palsy .
a neuroendocrine carcinoma composed of small malignant cells which are often said to resemble  \ "oat cells \ " under the microscope .
a malignant neoplasm involving the anal canal
a malignant form of pleural solitary fibrous tumor .
a group of disorders caused by a prenatal exposure to maternal consumption of alcohol leading to a range of behavioral ,  cognitive and neurological deficits in the offspring .
a morphologic finding indicating inflammation of the fetal sac membranes .
an acute inflammation of the umbilical cord .
an epilepsy syndrome that is a group of clinical entities showing a cluster of electro - clinical characteristics ,  classified according to age at onset ,  cognitive and developmental antecedents and consequences ,  motor and sensory examinations ,  eeg features ,  provoking or triggering factors ,  and patterns of seizure occurrence with respect to sleep .
an electroclinical syndrome with onset in the neonatal period less than 44 weeks of gestational age .
an electroclinical syndrome with onset in infancy occurring between birth and one year of age .
a electroclinical syndrome that occurs during childhood .
an electroclinical syndrome with onset in adolescence and adulthood .
a childhood electroclinical syndrome characterized by the occurrence of typical absence seizures starting between the age of four and ten years .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of l - serine biosynthetic process .
low serum levels of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  due to poor intestinal absorption ,  decreased dietary intake ,  or increased physiologic requirement .
x - linked form of disease .
autosomal dominant form of disease .
y - linked form of disease .
a monogenic disease that is has material basis in a mutation in a single gene on one of the non - sex chromosomes .
this type of lymphoma is not frequently seen in the western hemisphere .
a clonal neoplasm of small b - lymphocytes ,  lymphoplasmacytoid cells ,  and plasma cells involving the bone marrow ,  lymph nodes ,  and the spleen .
a neurological syndrome characterised by clumsy and unco - ordinated movement of the limbs ,  trunk ,  and cranial muscles .
an autosomal dominant inherited condition characterized by many cysts of various sizes scattered throughout the liver .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from paraganglia located along the sympathetic or parasympathetic nerves .
a multiple sclerosis with a clinical course characterized by a progressive accumulation of neurological disability ,  independent of relapses ,  following an initial relapsing - remitting  ( rr )  phase .
a multiple sclerosis that is characterized by steady worsening of neurologic functioning ,  without any distinct relapses or periods of remission .
a multiple sclerosis that is characterized by steadily worsening symptoms and attacks during periods of remission with disease progression from the onset .
a genetic disease of the electrical system of the heart that consists of a constellation of signs and symptoms ,  consisting of a short qt interval on an ekg  (  <  300 ms )  that does not significantly change with heart rate ,  tall and peaked t waves ,  and a structurally normal heart .
an inherited ocular disorder characterized by the loss of cone cells ,  the photoreceptors responsible for both central and color vision .
creatine deficiency syndrome  ( cds )  comprises a group of inborn errors of creatine metabolism ,  characterized by a global developmental delay ,  intellectual disability and associated neurological  ( seizures ,  movement disorders ,  myopathy )  and behavioral manifestions .
a molecular subtype of glioblastoma characterized by lack of p53 mutations ,  chromosome 7 amplifications or deletions ,  and high levels of egfr amplification .
a molecular subtype of glioblastoma that is associated with younger age at presentation and is characterized by p53 mutations and pdgfra amplifications .
a molecular subtype of glioblastoma characterized by the presence of nf1 mutations .
a molecular subtype of glioblastoma characterized by the expression of the neural markers nefl ,  gabra1 ,  syt1 ,  and slc12a5 .
a disease involving the ocular adnexa .
ochoa syndrome is characterized by the association of severe voiding dysfunction and a characteristic facial expression .
a heart block that is initiated in the atrioventricular node .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of prolonged pr interval for a specific population .
intermittent failure of atrial electrical impulse conduction to the ventricles .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of complete failure of atrial electrical impulse conduction to the ventricles .
a disease involving the sinoatrial node .
a disease involving the endocardium .
a disease involving the tricuspid valve .
an impairment of the structure or function of the blood vessels which carry blood away from the heart .
a disease involving the pericardium .
a dystonia that is localized to a specific part of the body .
a dystonia that involves two or more unrelated body parts .
a dystonia that affects two or more adjacent parts of the body .
a focal dystonia of the pelvic floor muscles during attempted defecation .
cervical dystonia is a neurological condition characterized by excessive pulling of the muscles of the neck and shoulder resulting in abnormal movements of the head  ( dystonia )  .most commonly ,  the head turns to one side or the other .tilting sideways ,  or to the back or front may also occur .the turning or tilting movements may be accompanied by shaking movement  ( tremor )  and / or soreness of the muscles of the neck and shoulders .cervical dystonia can occur at any age ,  but most cases occur in middle age .
a focal dystonia that affects a single muscle or small group of muscles in the hand resulting from involuntary muscular contractions .
a focal dystonia that is characterized by a prolonged involuntary upward deviation of the eyes .
a chronic voice disorder characterized by momentary periods of uncontrolled spasms of the muscles of the larynx .
a focal dystonia that is characterized as dystonia that affects the muscles of the head ,  face ,  and neck .
a multifocal dystonia that involves the arm and leg on the same side of the body .
a adenoma that involves the periampullary region of duodenum .
a brain disease that is characterized by functional impairment of cognition ,  cerebral signal conduction ,  neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity ,  and underlying structural pathology associated with diabetes .
a hardening of the kidney glomerulus caused by scarring of the blood vessels .
a ischemia that involves the limb .
chronic form of venous insufficiency  ( disease )  .
a final common manifestation of a wide variety of chronic kidney diseases characterized by glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis .
a behavior disorder characterized by a persistent pattern of defiant ,  disobedient ,  and hostile behavior towards authority figures ,  manifested by a frequent loss of temper ,  arguing ,  becoming angry or vindictive ,  or other negativistic behaviors .
inflammation of the bladder resulting in bloody urine .
inflammation of uterine musculature associated with pus in the uterine cavity .
an anterior ischemic neuropathy that is the cause of vision loss that occurs in temporal arteritis  ( aka giant cell arteritis ) 
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the tongue .
an epithelial neoplasm morphologically characterized by the presence of a villous architectural pattern .
a localized non - invasive adenocarcinoma of the lung measuring 3 cm or less .
inclusion body myopathy with paget disease of bone and frontotemporal dementia  ( ibmpfd )  is a multisystem degenerative genetic disorder characterized by adult - onset proximal and distal muscle weakness  ( clinically resembling limb - girdle muscular dystrophy )  ;  early - onset paget disease of bone ,  manifesting with bone pain ,  deformity and enlargement of the long - bones ;  and premature frontotemporal dementia ,  manifesting first with dysnomia ,  dyscalculia and comprehension deficits followed by progressive aphasia ,  alexia ,  and agraphia .
a intellectual disability that is part of a larger syndrome .
an intellectual disability that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a neurodegenerative disease that is characterized by the abnormal accumulation of aggregates of alpha - synuclein protein in neurons ,  nerve fibres or glial cells .
a ameloblastoma that involves the bone tissue .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the bone tissue .
a chondrosarcoma  ( disease )  that involves the bone tissue .
a chondroma that involves the phalanx .
a medulloblastoma that involves the brainstem .
a chordoma  ( disease )  that involves the fused sacrum .
a oligodendroglioma that involves the corpus callosum .
an ependymal tumor affecting the parietal lobe of the brain .
a carcinoma that arises from the major or minor salivary glands .
a mixed germ cell cancer that is located in areas of the body other than the ovary or testicle .
a neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the cecal mucosa .
a carcinoid tumor  ( disease )  that involves the vermiform appendix .
an adenoma that arises from the colon .
an adenoma that arises from the rectum .
a mucoepidermoid carcinoma that involves the bronchus .
a lung combined type small cell carcinoma that has material basis in epithelial tissue of glandular origin .
a mucoepidermoid carcinoma that involves the trachea .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the tonsil .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the pharynx .
a rhabdoid tumor that involves the striated muscle tissue .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the small intestine .
a adenocarcinoma that involves the jejunum .
a melanoma  ( disease )  that involves the ovary .
a melanoma that arises from a mucosal site .
a adenoid cystic carcinoma that involves the sublingual gland .
an invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by a predominance of clear and hobnail malignant epithelial cells .
a relatively uncommon neuroblastoma that is found in the neck .
a benign or malignant sympathetic paraganglioma arising from paraganglia outside the adrenal gland .
a neuroblastoma that involves the retroperitoneal space .
an adenocarcinoma of the breast arising from the lobules .
a endometrial carcinoma  ( disease )  that involves the body of uterus .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the endocervix .
cerebellar ataxia that is transmitted from parent to child .
an autosomal recessive form of spinocerebellar ataxia caused by mutation ( s )  in the stub1 gene ,  encoding e3 ubiquitin - protein ligase chip .
infective endocarditis  ( ie )  is an infection of the inner lining of the heart chambers  ( endocardium )  and valves .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the central nervous system .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the endocrine system .
a severe combined immunodeficiency that is the result of a mutation on chromosome 6 rag1 gene involving genetic rearrangement of both the t -  and b - lymphocyte receptor genes .
a severe combined immunodeficiency that is the result of a mutation on chromosome 6 rag2 gene involving genetic rearrangement of both the t -  and b - lymphocyte receptor genes .
anemia ,  the cause of which is present at birth .
a b cell deficiency that has material basis in mutations in the igll1 gene .
a hypobammaglobulinemia that is a b cell deficiency that has material basis in a mutation in a cytoplasmic linker or adaptor protein that plays a critical role in b cell development ,  the b cell linker protein  ( blnk )  gene .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the exocrine system .
an autoimmune form of otorhinolaryngologic disease .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the alimentary part of gastrointestinal system .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the musculoskeletal system .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the peripheral nervous system .
a cardiomyopathy that is due to abnormalities in heart muscle cells .
a developmental disorder of mental health that categorizes specific learning disabilities and developmental disorders affecting coordination .
a category of developmental disorders characterized by impaired communication and socialization skills .
a category of psychiatric disorders characterized by a disturbance in sexual desire and in the psychophysiological changes that make up the sexual response cycle .
disorders that include recurrent ,  intense sexually arousing fantasies ,  sexual urges ,  or behaviors generally involving nonhuman objects ,  suffering of oneself or partners ,  or children or other nonconsenting partners .
a factitious disorder that involves a care giver's deliberate exaggeration ,  fabrication ,  and / or induce physical ,  psychological ,  behavioral ,  and / or mental health problems in others .
a language disorder that involves an acquired impairment of any laguage modality such as producting or comprehending spoken or written language .
a learning disability that involves impaired written language ability such as impairments in handwriting ,  spelling ,  organization of ideas ,  and composition .
a specific phobia that involves an irrational fear of contracting a disease .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the genitourinary system .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the blood .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the cardiovascular system .
an immune system disease that has basis in dysregulation of the hypersensitivity reaction ,  an inflammatory response to an exogenous environmental antigen or an endogenous antigen initiated by the adaptive immune system .
a allergy involving gluten .
a t - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma arising from the skin .
formation of a non - infectious thrombus ,  referred to as vegetation ,  on previously undamaged endocardium .
a disease of cellular proliferation that results in abnormal growths in the body ,  which do not invade or destroy the surrounding tissue but ,  given enough time ,  will transform into a cancer .
a malignant neoplasm involving the lymphatic part of lymphoid system
a non - metastasizing neoplasm arising from the breast parenchyma .
a malignant neoplasm involving the immune system
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the female reproductive system .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the male reproductive system .
a benign neoplasm that involves the vestibular gland .
a non - metastasizing ,  functioning or non - functioning neoplasm that arises from an endocrine organ .
a benign neoplasm that involves the central nervous system .
a benign neoplasm that involves the cardiovascular system .
a benign neoplasm that involves the immune organ .
a neoplasm that arises from the bone or articular cartilage and does not invade adjacent tissues or metastasize to other anatomic sites .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the uterine corpus or the cervix .
a benign neoplasm that involves the sense organ .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm arising from any of the organs of the thoracic cavity .
a benign neoplasm that involves the musculoskeletal system .
a malignant neoplasm involving the musculoskeletal system
a form of glioma without malignant characteristics .
a cancer involving a cartilage tissue .
a neuroectodermal tumor that involves the central nervous system .
a cerebellum cancer that begins in the lower part of the brain on the floor of the skull .
a meningioma  ( disease )  that involves the brain .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the vulva .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the cervix .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the fallopian tube .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the ovary .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the vagina .
abnormal growth of cells in the nervous system without evidence of malignant characteristics .
a malignant neoplasm involving the sensory system
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the peritoneal cavity .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the thorax and / or the organs of the thoracic cavity .
a benign neoplasm that involves the integumental system .
a malignant neoplasm involving the integumental system
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the connective and soft tissue .
a heavy chain disease that results from an overproduction of delta antibody  ( igd )  .
an agnosia that is a loss of motion perception .
an agnosia that is a deficiency in understanding ,  processing ,  or describing emotions .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to recognize musical notes ,  rhythms ,  and intervals .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to gain feedback about one's own condition or impairments .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to distinguish visual shapes .
apraxia is a neurological disorder characterized by the inability to perform tasks or movements ,  despite having the desire and physical ability to perform them .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to recognize visual scenes or classes of objects but retain the abilty to describe them .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to distinguishing environmental and non - verbal auditory cues including difficulty distinguishing speech from non - speech sounds even though hearing is usually normal .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to orient parts of the body .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to recognize a color ,  while being able to perceive or distinguish it .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to perceive any auditory information but whose hearing is intact .
an agnosia characterized by an inabilty to distinguish ,  name ,  or recognize the fingers
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to perceive a whole object while perceiving only parts of details .
agnosia characterized by the inability to integrate perceptual wholes within knowledge .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to acknowledge objects in the neglected field that are visible when a mirror reflects the object visible in the non - neglected field .
loss of the ability to perceive and process pain .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to recognize familiar voices .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to visually recognise an object while maintaining the use of non - visual sensory systems such as feeling ,  tapping ,  smelling ,  rocking or flicking the object to recognise the object .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to recgonize a whole image or scene while retianing the ability to recognize objects or details in their visual field one at a time .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to perceive facial expression ,  body language and intonation ,  rendering them unable to non - verbally perceive people's emotions and limiting that aspect of social interaction .
an agnosia that is the loss of the ability to recognize objects by touch based on its texture ,  size and weight .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to recognize or identify objects by touch alone .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to comprehend the succession and duration of events .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to rely on visual cues to guide them directionally due to the inability to recognise objects .
an agnosia that is a loss of the ability to recognising spoken words as semantically meaningful .
an inability to recognize or interpret objects by sight .
loss of the power to comprehend written materials despite preservation of the ability to write  ( i .e . ,  alexia without agraphia )  .
an alopecia areata that involves diffuse loss of hair over the whole scalp .
an inherited disorder that affects the metabolism of any acidic compound containing carbon in a covalent linkage .
preoccupations with appearance or self - image causing significant distress or impairment in important areas of functioning .
a bipolar disorder that is characterized by at least one hypomanic episode and at least one major depressive episode ;  with this disorder ,  depressive episodes are more frequent and more intense than manic episodes .
a syndrome characterized by depressions that recur annually at the same time each year ,  usually during the winter months .
an amino acid metabolic disorder characterized by impairment of the gaba catabolic pathway .
a migraine disorder characterized by individual and family history of aura that includes motor weakness .
inflammation of the colon due to colonic ischemia resulting from alterations in systemic circulation or local vasculature .
inflammation of the colon that is only apparent by microscopic examination .
a type of microscopic colitis of unknown etiology .
microscopic colitis characterized by the accumulation of lymphocytes in the colonic epithelium and lamina propria .
a bacterial infection of the colon secondary to infection with clostridium difficile bacteria .
a colitis caused by the introduction of harsh chemicals to the colon by an enema or other procedure .
a colitis which can occur as a complication of ileostomy or colostomy .
an crohn disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the ileum .
an inflammatory bowel disease characterized by inflammation located in stomach and located in duodenum ,  has symptom nausea ,  has symptom vomiting ,  has symptom weight loss and has symptom loss of appetite .
frontotemporal dementia plus amyotrophic lateral sclerosis .
a adenoid cystic carcinoma that involves the lymph node .
an acquired writing disorder causing a loss in the ability to communicate through writing ,  either due to some motor dysfunction or the inability to spell .
a metabolic metabolic disorder characterized by excess urinary excretion of the purine base xanthine .
a synpolydactyly that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a speech disorder characterized by frequent sound or syllable repetitions ,  sound prolongations ,  or other dysfluencies that are inappropriate for the individual's age .
a language disorder characterized by difficulty in language acquisition despite otherwise normal development and in the absence of any obvious explanatory factors .
a scoliosis with no known cause .
a muscular dystrophy which begins at the lower legs and affects the shoulder region earlier and more severely than distal arm .
the drooping of the upper eyelid .
a mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder in which multiple mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes .
a pigmentation disease characterized by reticulate hyper -  and hypo - pigmentated macules in a generalized distribution .
inflammation of the uvula .
an upper respiratory tract disease characterized by the unusual growth of the adenoid tonsil ;  has symptom snoring ,  has symptom hyponasality ,  has symptom otitis media with effusion ,  has symptom mouth breathing .
inflammation of the skin at the corners of the mouth characterized by redness ,  fissures or crusts .
an epithelial hyperplasia of the oral cavity mucosa associated with epstein - barr virus and found almost exclusively in persons with hiv infection .
a bacterial ,  fungal or parasitic abscess that develops in the lung parenchyma .
cessation of breathing and / or cardiac function .
the protrusion of a sac - like structure containing fibroadipose tissue through an abnormal opening in the inguinal region .
a congenital defect in the muscles of the abdominal wall that results in the intestines and other abdominal organs developing outside the abdominal wall covered in a sac .
inflammation of the mucosal lining of the mastoid antrum and mastoid air cell system of the mastoid process .
a breast disease characterized by a collection of pus in the breast .
a tooth disease characterized by a localized collection of pus associated with a tooth .
a polyp that arises from the surface of the cervix .
a pathologic tract that connects an opening in the anal canal to the perianal skin .
an abnormal pregnancy in which the conception is implanted outside the endometrial cavity .
an embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma located in the parameningeal region .
an osteoporosis caused by chronic glucocorticoid use .
a condition that is caused by infection with bartonella ,  and which is characterized by vascular proliferation ,  usually in immunocompromised individuals .
any corneal dystrophy  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tgfbi gene .
a corneal dystrophy  ( disease )  that involves the corneal epithelium .
an egg allergy triggered by gallus gallus eggs .
allergic reaction to shellfish or shellfish products .
a respiratory system disease with a basis in a pathological type i hypersensitivity reaction .
a allergy involving pollen .
a allergy involving a phleum pratense .
an autoimmune form of peripheral neuropathy .
immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally .
a allergy involving a metal allergen .
a allergic disease that involves the digestive tract .
a food allergy triggered by a plant fruit product .
a allergy involving a malus domestica .
a allergy involving a prunus armeniaca .
a fruit allergy triggered by prunus avium plant fruit food product .
a fruit allergy triggered by ziziphus mauritiana plant fruit food product .
a fruit allergy triggered by citrus sinensis plant fruit food product .
a fruit allergy triggered by cucumis melo plant fruit food product .
a allergy involving a prunus persica .
a allergy involving a prunus domestica .
a allergy involving a solanum lycopersicum .
a allergy involving fish .
a allergy involving a gadus morhua .
a allergy involving a salmo salar .
a allergy involving a cyprinus carpio .
a allergy involving a oncorhynchus mykiss .
a allergy involving a beta - lactam .
an allergy to penicillin .
a allergy involving cow mile .
a allergy involving goat milk .
a allergic disease involving a mollusc food product .
a allergic disease involving a crustacean food product .
a allergic disease involving a brown shrimp .
a allergic disease involving a green mud crab .
a allergic disease involving a indian prawn .
a allergy involving a penaeus monodon .
a allergy involving a litopenaeus schmitti .
a allergic disease involving a snail food product .
a allergy involving a turbo cornutus .
allergic reaction to products containing processed natural rubber latex such as rubber gloves ,  condoms ,  catheters ,  dental dams ,  balloons ,  and sporting equipment .
a severe ,  rapidly fatal reaction occurring most commonly in children following an infectious illness .
a dilated cardiomyopathy that has material basis in mutations in the dmd gene .
a congenital coronary vessel anomaly in which the left main coronary artery originates from the pulmonary artery instead of from aorta .
a disease involving the vertebral column .
pathological conditions of the cardiovascular system caused by infection of mycobacterium tuberculosis .
an acute b - lymphoblastic leukemia occurring in adults .
a specific developmental disorder that is characterized by physical ,  behavioral and learning birth defects resulting from maternal ingestion of nicotine during pregnancy .
a rare neural tube defect during pregnancy ,  resulting in the absence of a large portion of the brain and skull in the fetus .
a disorder characterized by malformations in the structure of the capillaries in the brain .
infections with bacteria of the genus salmonella .
the formation of a blood clot in the lumen of a vessel or heart chamber ;  causes include coagulation disorders and vascular endothelial injury .
a bone disease that results in formation or resorption abnormalities located in bone .
a bone structure disease that results in change or damage of structure located in bone .
bone loss due to osteoclastic activity .
any abnormality ,  anatomical or biochemical ,  evident at birth or during the neonatal period .
a form of avascular necrosis where there is death of a portion of the bone that is thought to be caused by nitrogen embolism .
a genetic ,  non - inheritable disorder caused by osteoblastic differentiation defects that result in the replacement of bone marrow and trabecular bone by fibrous stroma and immature bone .
a syndrome that involves abnormality of collagen synthesis in lamellar bones ,  with manifestations limited to the skeleton .
a charcot - marie - tooth disease that is characterized by optic atrophy followed by retinitis pigmentosa .
the mildest form of spina bifida ,  characterized by any of several neural tube defects which may go undetected until an x - ray is performed .
mitochondrial myopathy and sideroblastic anemia belongs to the heterogeneous family of metabolic myopathies .
an acute lymphoblastic leukemia occurring during childhood .
an acute lymphoblastic leukemia of t - cell origin occurring in children .
an acute b - lymphoblastic leukemia occurring in children .
a lymphoma composed of immature small to medium - sized precursor lymphoid cells  ( lymphoblasts )  .
a t lymphoblastic lymphoma that occurs during childhood .
a acute monocytic leukemia that occurs in an adult .
infection of the retina by cytomegalovirus characterized by retinal necrosis ,  hemorrhage ,  vessel sheathing ,  and retinal edema .
candidiasis of the skin manifested as eczema - like lesions of the interdigital spaces ,  perleche ,  or chronic paronychia .
a group of rare myeloid and lymphoid neoplasms characterized by rearrangement of the pdgfra ,  pdgfrb ,  or fgfr1 genes ,  resulting in the formation of fusion transcripts and aberrant tyrosine kinase activity .
hematologic neoplasms characterized by the rearrangement of the pdgfra gene ,  most often resulting in the formation of fip1l1 - pdgfra fusion transcripts .
myeloid and rarely lymphoid neoplasms characterized by the rearrangement of the pdgfrb gene ,  most often resulting in the formation of etv6 - pdgfrb fusion transcripts .
inflammation of the mucous membranes lining the gastrointestinal tract .
infections of the nervous system caused by bacteria of the genus haemophilus ,  and marked by prominent inflammation of the meninges .
a congenital birth syndrome that arises from materal zika infection .
a fibrolamellar carcinoma that is characterized by the presence of both pure fibrolamellar hepatocellular carcinoma and and conventional hepatocellular carcinoma components .
a rare ,  invasive colon adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of sheets of malignant epithelial cells with vesicular nuclei ,  prominent nucleoli ,  and abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm .
a rare morphologic variant of bronchiolo - alveolar lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of both mucin and non - mucin producing cells .
a bronchiolo - alveolar adenocarcinoma that is characterized by a tumour cells containing abundant mucin in their cytoplasm and composed of tall columnar cells growing along alveolar walls without stromal invasion .
a bronchiolo - alveolar adenocarcinoma that is characterized by cells with cuboidal or columnar morphology with eosinophilic or clear cytoplasm and shows clara cell or type 2 pneumocyte differentiation .
a malignant form of hemangioma .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma characterized by less than 50 percent decrease in lesion size with induction therapy or the appearance of new lesions or the appearance of new lesions after attainment of complete remission .
corpus callosum agenesis - neuropathy is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by severe progressive sensorimotor neuropathy beginning in infancy with resulting hypotonia ,  areflexia ,  amyotrophy and variable degrees of dysgenesis of the corpus callosum .
myoclonus - dystonia syndrome  ( mds )  is a rare movement disorder characterized by mild to moderate dystonia along with 'lightning - like' myoclonic jerks .
any arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ctnna3 gene .
a bartter disease that has material basis in simultaneous mutation in both the clcnka and clcnkb genes .
a retinitis pigmentosa that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region xp21 .3 - p21 .2 .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmpo gene .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 14q12 .
any hereditary spherocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sptb gene .
a cadasil characterized by migraine ,  strokes ,  and white matter lesions that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the notch3 gene on chromosome 19p13 .
an infectious disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the intestinal mucosa .
an acute or chronic ,  usually bacterial infectious process affecting the endometrium .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the ampulla of vater .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the duodenum .
a benign or malignant neoplasm involving the ampulla of vater .
pelvic inflammatory disease  ( pid )  is an acute or chronic inflammation in the pelvic cavity .
pathologic accumulation of air in the interstitium of the lungs ,  which is caused by the rupture of alveoli and terminal bronchioles ,  and is most often seen in premature infants that need mechanical ventilation for respiratory distress syndrome .
a lung with reduced markings on its chest radiograph and increased areas of transradiancy  ( hyperlucency )  .
disease that disrupts the process by which the vertebrate eye changes optical power to maintain a clear image or focus on an object as its distance varies .
a melanoma that arises from the upper or lower eyelid .
a rare variant of melanoma with a vertical growth phase .
an aggressive form of melanoma ,  frequently metastasizing to the lymph nodes .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the endometrium .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the subglottic area of the larynx .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the larynx .
a benign exophytic neoplasm that arises from the larynx ,  usually the true vocal cords .
an infectious meningitis caused by infection with treponema .
an encephalitis caused by infection with treponema .
a rare benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the wall of the stomach .
an abscess that is located in the intracranial space .
infection with protozoa of the genus trypanosoma .
a neurodegenerative disease that involves the eyelid .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the cornea .
impaired venous blood flow or venous return  ( venous stasis )  ,  usually caused by inadequate venous valves .
involuntary spasm of the outer muscles of the vagina during penetration that results from a psychological cause .
dryness of the eye due to inadequate production of tears .
term generally used to describe complaints related to refractive error ,  ocular muscle imbalance ,  including pain or aching around the eyes ,  burning and itchiness of the eyelids ,  ocular fatigue ,  and headaches .
a lymphoma that arises from the thymus .
a cancer that involves the hindlimb long bone .
a cancer involving a meckel's diverticulum .
a malignant neoplasm involving the ileum
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the small intestine .
neuroretinitis is an inflammation of the neural retina and optic nerve .
diabetic angiopathy is a form of angiopathy associated with diabetic complications .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm located within the lumen of a bronchus .
a benign circumscribed tumor composed of spindled cells ,  adipocytes ,  and collagen bundles .
a benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the esophagus .
a benign or malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the skin .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the liver .
a benign circumscribed tumor characterized by small spindle cells ,  rounded hyperchromatic cells and multinucleated giant cells with radially arranged nuclei .
a benign well - circumscribed tumor ,  composed of lobules of mature adipocytes ,  that arises within subcutaneous tissue ,  deep soft tissues or on the surface of bones .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the kidney .
a benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the pleural cavity .
a benign ,  mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the breast .
a benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the chest wall .
a benign adipose tissue neoplasm involving the gallbladder wall .
a benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the external ear .
a benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the axilla .
a benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the spermatic cord .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the paratesticular tissues .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm characterized by nests and cord of abundant univacuolated and multivacuolated lipoblasts and mature adipocytes in a prominent myxoid to hyalinized chondroid matrix admix .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the extrahepatic bile duct .
an endemic bacterial infection caused by treponema carateum .
a atherosclerosis that involves the aorta .
an pericarditis  ( disease )  caused by infection with histoplasma .
a disorder characterized by recurrent sexual urges ,  fantasies ,  or behaviors involving the exposure of one's genitals to an unsuspecting stranger .
an inherited blood disorder characterized by a decreased synthesis of one of the polypeptide chains that form hemoglobin .
inflammation of the pleura .it is usually caused by infections .
a disorder characterized by a change in the gallbladder wall due to excess cholesterol .
discharge or drainage of fluid from the ear .
a contagious viral infection caused by the mumps virus .
acute form of subendocardial myocardial infarction .
a bundle branch block in which the activation of the left ventricle is delayed .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of the heart's electrical conduction system .
an invasive prostate carcinoma characterized by the presence of squamous differentiation of the malignant cellular infiltrate .
an unusual malignant tumor that arises from the prostate gland .
a group of genetic neurological disorders caused by mutations in genes involved in the sodium and calcium channels in nerve cells .
a rare non - hodgkin or hodgkin lymphoma that arises from the prostate gland .
a form of ocular misalignment characterized by an excessive convergence of the visual axes ,  resulting in a 'cross - eye' appearance .
pneumoconiosis caused by the inhalation of mixed mineral dust particles .
a rare type of pneumoconiosis caused by long standing exposure to barium dust .
pneumoconiosis caused by exposure to talc .
pneumoconiosis caused by exposure to slate dust .
pneumoconiosis caused by inhalation of kaolin dust .
chronic form of meningitis  ( disease )  .
the abnormal narrowness of the palpebral fissure in the horizontal direction caused by the lateral displacement of the medial canthi of the eyelids .
a single ,  fluid - filled cyst in the breast parenchyma .
a cystic lesion located in breast tissue .
a slowly progressing leukemia characterized by a clonal  ( malignant )  proliferation of maturing and mature myeloid cells or mature lymphocytes .
meningitis in which eosinophils predominate in the cerebrospinal fluid .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the epididymis .
a rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the epididymis .
a nonspecific term referring to impaired vision .
decreased vision that results from abnormal visual development .
a mature b -  or t -  cell leukemia with progressive clinical course .
a plague in which the bacteria have infected the lungs .
chronic form of gonococcal seminal vesiculitis .
a infectious disease involving the bacteria .
a gonorrhea that involves the seminal vesicle .
an acute inflammatory process that affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth .
klippel feil syndrome  ( kfs )  is a congenital ,  musculoskeletal condition characterized by the fusion of at least two vertebrae of the neck .
acute form of suppurative otitis media .
an accumulation of pus in the anterior chamber of the eye .
inflammation of the tonsillar tissue .
an inflammatory process that affects the nasopharynx .
a dental caries that involves the dentine .
a tendinitis that involves the patella .
a congenital abnormality of the esophagus in which the upper esophagus ends as a blind pouch and does not connect with the lower esophagus ;  it is often accompanied by a tracheoesophageal fistula .
a congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the intestine .
a congenital birth defect characterized by the absence of a normal anal opening .
a granuloma located on the orbit of the eye .
a pericarditis characterized by inflammation ,  occurring after injury ,  located in pericardium .
an otitis externa which involves infection of the external ear that has spread to involve the skull bone containing part of the ear canal ,  the middle ear ,  and the inner ear .
acute form of otitis externa .
chronic form of otomycosis .
an otitis externa which involves bacterial infections often related to underlying comorbidities as well as trauma .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the stomach .
a metastasizing granular cell tumor that arises from the stomach .
an extranodal lymphoma that arises from the stomach with the bulk of the mass located in the stomach .
an invasive adenocarcinoma confined to the mucosa or mucosa and submucosa of the gastric wall .
a malignant neoplasm involving the pylorus .
a malignant neoplasm involving the pyloric antrum .
a malignant neoplasm involving the cardia of stomach .
acute form of otosalpingitis .
a vascular disease that is characterized by severe supine hypotension in late pregnancy ,  whose clinical presentation ranges from minimal cardiovascular alterations to severe shock ,  resulting from inferior vena cava compression by gravid uterus .
late yaws is the tertiary ,  non - contagious stage of yaws ,  endemic tropical treponemal nonvenereal infection .
early yaws includes primary and secondary stages of yaws ,  endemic tropical treponemal nonvenereal infection: development of initial lesion at inoculation site followed by widespread dissemination of treponemes and generalized secondary granulomatous lesions that may relapse repeatedly .
a metabolic bone disease that results from either a deficiency in vitamin d ,  or an abnormality in the metabolism of vitamin d ,  or a deficiency of calcium in the diet .
a broad category of disorders characterized by an impairment to the intelligence an individual possesses .
a pre - eclampsia characterized by the presence of hypertension without evidence of end - organ damage ,  in a woman who was normotensive before 20 weeks' gestation .
a neurological disorder presenting in childhood that is characterized by either motor or phonic tics ,  but not both ,  that occur daily or nearly daily for at least a year and are not attributed to an identifiable cause .
a finding of an excessive amount of fat in the stool .
the inability to regulate blood glucose levels resulting in hyperglycemia .
a rare disorder of the digestive tract characterized by malabsorption and anemia .
acute form of gonococcal cervicitis .
acute inflammation of the cervix .
a primary or metastatic malignant tumor involving the lymph node .
a genetic or acquired disorder characterized by impairment of the function of the proximal tubules of the kidney .
inflammation of the renal tubules and supporting tissues of the kidney .
a disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of inability to establish close relationships coupled with cognitive or perceptual distortions ,  odd beliefs and speech ,  and eccentric behavior and appearance .
acute form of anterolateral myocardial infarction .
a benign adipose tissue neoplasm originating in the colon .
a well - circumscribed benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the colon .
a lymphangioma arising from the colon .
a neuroblastoma arising from the mediastinum .
a ganglioneuroblastoma arising from the mediastinum .
an anxiety disorder characterized by recurrent excessive distress due to fear of separation from the home or from major attachment figures ;  the distress is developmentally inappropriate and causes impairment in social ,  academic ,  or other areas of functioning .
single or multiple ,  milk - containing nodules in the breast .
excessive enlargement of one or both breasts .
localized necrosis of the adipose tissue in the breast .
an infection of the small intestine caused by the flagellated protozoan giardia lamblia .
hypertension caused by the kidney's hormonal response to narrowing or occlusion of the renal arteries .
an acute or chronic condition that is characterized by the inability of the kidneys to adequately filter the blood .
a malignant neoplasm involving the broad ligament of uterus .
inflammation of petrous bone .
persistent pyelonephritis .
a plague in which the bacteria have infected the lymphatic system .
myocarditis that is caused by an infection with a bacterial agent .
polycythemia that occurs in groups of related individuals .
inflammation of the mesenteric lymph nodes .
an inherited or acquired condition characterized by abnormally increased levels of methemoglobin in the blood .
a spotted fever that has material basis in rickettsia australis ,  which is transmitted by ticks  ( ixodes holocyclus )  .
cessation of menstruation before the age of 40 .
inflammation of the frontal sinus that typically lasts beyond eight weeks .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the frontal sinus .
inflammation of the maxillary sinus that typically lasts beyond eight weeks .
inflammation of the sphenoid sinus that typically lasts beyond eight weeks .
acute form of gonococcal epididymo - orchitis .
an ulcerated lesion in the mucosal surface of the stomach .
a tendinitis that involves the tibialis .
a malignant neoplasm involving the nasal cavity
an olfactory neuroblastoma arising in the nasal cavity .
a primary lymphoma that affects the nasal cavity and the bulk of the tumor is in this anatomic area .
a disorder characterized by recurrent sexual urges ,  fantasies ,  or behaviors involving acts  ( real ,  not simulated )  in which the psychological or physical suffering of a victim is sexually exciting to the individual .
essential hypertension with rapid progression to severe high blood pressure ,  papilledema ,  and renal failure .
hypertension that presents without an identifiable cause .
a disorder characterized by recurrent sexual urges ,  fantasies ,  or behaviors involving observing an unsuspecting person who is naked ,  disrobing ,  or engaging in sexual activity .
an disease caused by infection with murray valley encephalitis virus .
a angiodysplasia that involves the intestine .
a disorder characterized by recurrent sexual urges ,  fantasies ,  or behaviors involving the act  ( real ,  not simulated )  of being humiliated ,  beaten ,  bound ,  or otherwise made to suffer .
as accumulation of granulation tissue in the middle ear that results from the degeneration of blood and a chronic inflammatory response .
a disease involving the saliva - secreting gland .
a cranial nerve palsy that involves the trochlear nerve .
a congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column or the cranium .
a thrombophlebitis that involves the iliac vein .
a congenital or acquired developmental disorder in which the circumference of the head is smaller than normal for the person's age and sex .
a disorder characterized by an abnormal increase of cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles of the brain .
a condition of mild to moderate high blood pressure that has no identifiable cause .
systematic and extensive loss of memory caused by organic or psychological factors .
a marked difference between the individual's expressed / experienced gender and the gender others would assign him or her ,  and it must continue for at least six months .
a spotted fever that has material basis in rickettsia sibirica ,  which is transmitted by ticks  ( dermacentor nuttalli ,  dermacentor marginatus and haemaphysalis concinna )  .
a disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of unstable self - image and mood together with volatile interpersonal relationships ,  self - damaging impulsivity ,  recurrent suicidal threats or gestures and / or self - mutilating behavior .
a disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of an extreme need to be taken care of together with fear of separation that lead the individual to urgently seek out and submit to another person and allow that person to make decisions that impact all areas of the individual's life .
a disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of inflexibility ,  extreme orderliness ,  and perfectionism which interfere with efficiency and which may manifest in many different contexts ,  including work and leisure activities ,  financial matters ,  and issues of morality or ethics .
a disorder characterized by the presence of two or more identities with distinct patterns of perception and personality which recurrently take control of the person's behavior ;  this is accompanied by a retrospective gap in memory of important personal information that far exceeds ordinary forgetfulness .
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by a disruption in the usually integrated functions of consciousness ,  memory ,  identity ,  and / or perception of the environment .
a disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of extreme social detachment and lack of involvement in interpersonal activities ,  coupled with emotional coldness .
a category of behaviors that can be loosely defined as the failure to resist an impulsive act or behavior that may be harmful to self or others .
a disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of behavior based on the pervasive belief that the motives of others are malevolent and that they should not be trusted .
a disorder characterized by a pervasive pattern of disregard for and violation of the rights of others that is manifested in childhood or early adolescence .
a disease involving the tongue .
inflammation of renal tissue .
a type of cerebral palsy characterized by spasticity and hypertonia of the lower extremities bilaterally ,  particularly the legs ,  hips ,  and pelvis ;  this is the most common  ( 70% )  form of cerebral palsy .
a type of spastic cerebral palsy characterized by increased muscle tone of the arm and leg on the same side of the body .
a spastic cerebral palsy that affects only one limb .
severe or complete loss of motor function on one side of the body .
acute form of salpingo - oophoritis .
acute inflammation of the fallopian tube .
a disorder of the vasculature of the cornea .
a cataract disease in which the cataract contains some transparent protein
a disease involving the lens of camera - type eye .
a yellowish thickened lesion on the conjunctiva near the cornea representing a benign degenerative change in the conjunctiva caused by the leakage and deposition of certain blood proteins through the permeable capillaries near the limbus .
keratopathy that is characterized by the presence of epithelial bullae .
chronic form of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis .
a disorder characterized by a retrospective gap in memory of important personal information ,  usually of a traumatic or stressful nature ;  the memory loss far exceeds ordinary forgetfulness and is not the result of substance use or the consequence of a medical condition .
a disorder characterized by persistent or recurrent episodes of feeling detached from one's self  ( either one's body or one's mental processes )  ,  although the sufferer remains aware that this is only a feeling and does not represent reality .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the bladder .
an extranodal lymphoma that arises from the esophagus with the bulk of the mass located in the esophagus .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with brucella suis .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with hirudinea .
a melanoma affecting the esophageal wall .
a type of tick - borne disease which presents on the skin caused by bacteria of the genus rickettsia .
an instance of thrombocytopenia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
ossicular chain dislocation is a separation of the middle ear bones .
high blood pressure caused by an underlying medical condition .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the esophagus .
life - threatening respiratory failure that develops rapidly .
a wart caused by human papillomavirus .
abnormal recession of the eyeball within the eye socket .
a otitis media which involves transudation of fluid in the middle ear without pus formation .
chronic form of serous otitis media .
acute inflammation of the conjunctiva .
a primary systemic mycosis that results in systemic fungal infection ,  has material basis in pseudallescheria boydii ,  which results in formation of abscesses .
deterioration of the normal pulp tissue .
conjunctivitis that is characterized by formation of a pseudomembrane .
an upper respiratory tract disease which involves inflammation of both larynx and pharynx .
hypoparathyroidism is is an endocrine disorder in which the parathyroid glands in the neck do not produce enough parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  .
abnormally dilated veins of the esophagus .
a broad classification of inherited disorders presenting at birth that affect the cell - mediated aspect of the immune response .
a disease involving the parathyroid gland .
atopic conjunctivitis that is of relatively short duration and that has a rapid onset .
a substance abuse that involves the recurring use of opioid drugs despite negative consequences .
acute inflammation of the conjunctiva characterized by pink or red color in the eyes .
chronic form of tympanitis .
a diverticulitis that involves the small intestine .
an auditory system disease that is characterized by a thin retracted ear drum becomes sucked into the middle - ear space and stuck  ( i .e . ,  adherent )  to the ossicles and other bones of the middle ear .
a malignant neoplasm involving the vermiform appendix
a benign or malignant neoplasm involving the appendix .
a lymphoma arising from the appendix .
a condition in which the red blood cell level is greater than established reference ranges in a newborn .
a blood disorder characterized by low hemoglobin levels in premature neonates that usually spontaneously resolves within 3 - 6 months post birth .
the mildest form of erythroblastosis fetalis in which anemia is the chief manifestation .
a clotting condition characterized as a disruption in the homeostatic balance of the coagulation and fibrinolytic systems presenting as a pathological activation of coagulation mechanisms leading to the formation of small clots inside the blood vessels throughout the body of the newborn .
a pathological process where the blood starts to coagulate throughout the whole body .
deficiency of vitamin k . it may lead to bleeding ,  manifested with ecchymoses ,  petechiae ,  and hematomas .
anemia in which the red blood cell volume is decreased .
a group of infectious diseases that include epidemic typhus ,  scrub typhus and murine typhus .
an anxiety disorder characterized by an intense ,  irrational fear of one or more social or performance situations in which the individual believes that he or she will be scrutinized by others .
a chronic infection of the conjunctiva and cornea caused by chlamydia trachomatis .
an eye disorder that results from vitamin a deficiency ,  with basis in disruption of maintenance of the specialized epithelial surfaces ,  leading to atrophic changes in the normal mucosal surface ,  with loss of goblet cells ,  and replacement of the normal epithelium by an inappropriate keratinized stratified squamous epithelium .
chronic form of periapical periodontitis .
nodular enlargement of the thyroid gland associated with hyperthyroidism .
an extrinsic allergic alveolitis caused by inhalation of antigens from thermophilic actinomycetes species growing in air conditioners and humidifiers .
a benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures .
ischemic necrosis of the pituitary gland .
an unusual presentation of schistosomiasis characterized by a pruritic papular rash in the perigenital or periumbilical area due to an allergic reaction to schistosoma eggs deposited in the skin .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of intermittent failure of atrial electrical impulse conduction to the ventricles ,  characterized by a relatively constant pr interval prior to the block of an atrial impulse .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with histoplasma capsulatum var .
an retinitis caused by infection with histoplasma capsulatum .
a disorder that differs from schizophrenia specifically in total duration  ( schizophreniform disorder lasts at least 1 month but less than 6 months whereas schizophrenia lasts at least 6 months )  ;  schizophreniform disorder also typically causes less impairment in the individual's social and occupational functioning .
an infection of the upper layers of the skin caused by species of streptococcus .
a loss of gum tissue resulting in an exposure of the roots of the teeth .
a disorder affecting the sclera .
a partial dislocation of the lens of the eye .
an abnormal dilation of the colon not due to obstruction .
spinal meningioma isa rare type of spinal cord cancer .
a disorder characterized by an impairment in the development of an individual's expressive language which is in contrast to his / her nonverbal intellect and receptive language development .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the cerebral artery .
a syndrome characterized by progressive life - threatening respiratory insufficiency in the absence of known lung diseases ,  usually following a systemic insult such as surgery or major trauma .
a meningioma that arises from the spinal meninges .
an inflammatory process that affects the choroid .
a form of ocular misalignment where the visual axes diverge inappropriately .
endometriosis that affects the fallopian tube .
a benign pathologic process characterized by the transformation of the mesothelium into fallopian tube epithelium .
endometriosis that affects the intesines .
a form of strabismus in which the eyes are deviated laterally .
endometriosis that affects the vagina .
inflammation of the small vessels of the skin that is mediated by the immune system .
a disease involving the autonomic nervous system .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the subglottic area of the larynx .
horner's syndrome is a rare condition characterized by miosis  ( constriction of thepupil )  ,  ptosis  ( drooping of the upper eyelid )  ,  and anhidrosis  ( absence of sweating of the face )  .
an instance of night blindness that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
acute compression of the heart caused by increased intrapericardial pressure due to the collection of blood or fluid in the pericardium from rupture of the heart ,  penetrating trauma ,  or progressive effusion .
dysfunction of the mitral valve characterized by incomplete valve closure .
autonomic neuropathy that is caused by diabetes mellitus .
an inherited or acquired peripheral neuropathy affecting the autonomic nervous system .
rumination disorder is the backward flow of recently eaten food from the stomach to the mouth .
abnormal enlargement of the heart resulting from long - standing hypertension .
narrowing of the laryngeal airway .
an abscess of the cornea .
paralysis of the oculomotor nerve .
a acute transudative otitis media with thin ,  watery and sterile effusion .
a acute serous otitis media caused by an allergen .
an acute episode of pain ,  swelling ,  and redness ,  sometimes associated with fever .
a clinical syndrome characterized by palpitation ,  shortness of breath ,  labored breathing ,  subjective complaints of effort and discomfort ,  all following slight physical exertion .
an infectious meningitis caused by infection with streptococcus .
a malignant neoplasm involving the pericardium .
transient bilateral swelling of breast tissue in a neonate that results from the waning influence of maternal estrogen .
a condition caused by the excessive secretion of androgens from the adrenal cortex ;  the ovaries ;  or the testes .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the penis .
death of pulp tissue with or without bacterial invasion .
an inherited autosomal recessive trait ,  characterized by peripheral resistance to thyroid hormones and the resulting elevation in serum levels of thyroxine and triiodothyronine .
the normal decreasing elasticity of the crystalline lens that leads to loss of accommodation .
a syndrome that involves sudden and rapidly developing attacks of arthritis with a remission period that results in no joint damage or symptoms .
a hypertrichosis  ( disease )  that involves the eyelid .
a hypotrichosis that involves the eyelid .
an instance of hyperlipidemia  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
the formation of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  in the portal vein .
a malignant neoplasm involving the heart
a dysgammaglobulinemia characterized by low or undetectable serum levels of immunoglobulin class a  ( iga )  .
an immunologic deficiency state characterized by selective deficiencies of one or more ,  but not all ,  classes of immunoglobulins .
any disease in which the causes of the disease is a perturbation of the kidney leading to its dysfunction .
a substance abuse that involves the recurring use of antidepressant drugs despite negative consequences .
an autosomal dominant disorder affecting the skeletal muscles of the face ,  scapula ,  and upper arm .
a malignant neoplasm involving the parametrium .
a malignant neoplasm involving the round ligament of uterus .
any disease caused by infection with by bordetella parapertussis .
a hemosiderosis that involves the camera - type eye .
anemia caused by low iron intake ,  inefficient iron absorption in the gastrointestinal tract ,  or chronic blood loss .
anemia caused by the reduction of hemoglobin in relation to the red cell volume .
a disease involving the bronchus .
involuntary movements of the eye that are divided into two types ,  jerk and pendular .
an abnormal white reflection from the retina of the eye .
chronic form of congestive splenomegaly .
persistent laryngitis usually caused by smoking ,  heavy alcohol consumption ,  voice abuse ,  or gastroesophageal reflux disease .
fluid collection within the pericardial sac ,  usually due to inflammation .
a nutritional deficit that is caused by inadequate protein or calorie intake .
a malignant neoplasm involving the neck of urinary bladder .
a malignant mesenchymal cell neoplasm that affects the urinary bladder .
a malignant neoplasm involving the trigone of urinary bladder .
a malignant neoplasm involving the urachus .
a malignant neoplasm involving the ureteral orifice .
cancer of the upper ,  convex surface of the bladder .
a lymphoma that involves the urinary bladder .
hepatorenal syndrome is a form of impaired kidney function that occurs in individuals with advanced chronic liver disease .
excessive axial myopia associated with complications  ( especially posterior staphyloma and choroidal neovascularization )  that can lead to blindness .
the condition in which the individual does not see far distances clearly .
visual impairment due to visual cortex dysfunction .
clinical or subclinical disturbances of cortical function due to a sudden ,  abnormal ,  excessive ,  and disorganized discharge of brain cells .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the penis .
a malignant neoplasm involving the glans penis .
a leprosy that is an early form of the disease which causes one to a few hypopigmented or erythematous macules .
disease or trauma involving a single peripheral nerve in isolation ,  or out of proportion to evidence of diffuse peripheral nerve dysfunction .
cancer or tumors of the ureter which may cause obstruction leading to hydroureter ,  hydronephrosis ,  and pyelonephritis .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the ureter .
a benign nerve sheath tumor composed of schwann cells ,  occurring in the ureter .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the vagina .
a malignant neoplasm involving the labium majora .
an ulcerative pyoderma usually caused by group a beta - hemolytic streptococcal infection at the site of minor trauma .
dermatophytosis involving the stratum corneum of the skin of the groin and perianal area .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from a peripheral nerve or the perineural sheaths .
a malignant neoplasm involving the trachea
neuropathy that is caused by inadequate blood supply .
an acute or chronic inflammatory disease affecting the esophageal wall .
inflammation of the vagina due to thinning of the vaginal wall and decreased lubrication associated with reduced estrogen levels at menopause .
a disease characterized by abnormal union between adjacent bones or parts of a single bone formed by osseous material ,  such as ossified connecting cartilage or fibrous tissue .
a tularemia that results in painful regional lymphadenopathy and an ulcerated skin lesion .
a rare autosomal dominant inherited disorder characterized by the presence of small areas of increased density throughout the bones .
loss of testicular volume .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the female reproductive system .
a rare lymphoma that arises from the trachea .
a rare malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the trachea .
a rare squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the mucosal lining of the trachea .
benign and malignant neoplasms which arise from or metastasize to the trigeminal or fifth cranial nerve which provides sensory innervation to the face ,  oral cavity and sinuses and the muscles of mastication .
a neoplasm involving a frontal lobe .
an endocrine disorder characterized by excessive production of aldosterone by the adrenal glands .
meningitis that arises from sarcoidosis .
a neurofibroma that arises from the posterior mediastinum .
dieulafoy lesion is an abnormally large artery  ( a vessel that takes blood from the heart to other areas of the body )  in the lining of the gastrointestinal system .
arthropathy that is not permanent .
a disease with basis in optic nerve damage secondary to a toxic substance and / or nutritional deficiency .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the vagina .
accumulation of iron in internal organs .
a rare lung disorder characterized by the filling of the pulmonary alveoli with proteinaceous material which stains positive with periodic acid - schiff stain .
an eating disorder characterized by the persistent eating of nonnutritive substances such as clay or soil ;  this behavior must be inappropriate to the level of the individual's development .
a chronic mood disorder in which the symptoms are similar to ,  though milder than ,  those diagnosed in depression .
the formation of dense connective tissue in the tympanic membrane that does not necessarily cause or lead to loss of hearing .
a parasitic infection caused by trypanosoma cruzi .
malfunctioning urinary bladder due to central nervous system disorders or damage to the peripheral nerves that are involved in the control of urination .
a form of meningitis caused by lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus .
degeneration of the peripheral retina .
a peripheral nerve lesion that involves the ulnar nerve .
disease involving the radial nerve .
a dermatophyte disease of the glabrous skin ,  excluding the scalp ,  beard ,  face ,  hands ,  feet ,  and groin .
a malignant neoplasm involving the descending colon .
a malignant neoplasm involving the splenic flexure of colon .
a malignant neoplasm involving the sigmoid colon .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the perianal skin .
an infectious meningitis caused by infection with histoplasma capsulatum .
a lymphoma that arises from the testis and is not associated with lymphoma in another anatomic site .
chronic form of salpingo - oophoritis .
a decrease in the number of neutrophils found in the blood .
an abnormality in which a part of a structure in one or both eyes is missing .
a condition of an inequality of refractive power of the two eyes .
a usually mild form of diphtheria characterized by infection of the skin by corynebacterium diphtheria and the resulting formation of a chronic ,  shallow ulcer that is sometimes bordered or followed by a bulla .
a thrombophlebitis that involves the femoral vein .
a myeloid or more commonly lymphoid leukemia  ( acute or chronic )  affecting the testis .
a subtype of schizophrenia characterized by prominent delusions  ( typically persecutory or grandiose )  or hallucinations in the context of a relative preservation of cognitive functioning and affect .
a mood disorder that is characterized by mood reactivity  ( paradoxical anhedonia )  and positivity ,  significant weight gain or increased appetite  (  \ "comfort eating \ " )  ,  excessive sleep or somnolence  ( hypersomnia )  ,  a sensation of heaviness in limbs known as leaden paralysis ,  and significant social impairment as a consequence of hypersensitivity to perceived interpersonal rejection .
a cancer that involves the intrahepatic bile duct .
a stromal corneal dystrophy that is caused by mutation ( s )  in the tgfbi gene .
an asthma that is characterized by chronic nonproductive cough without shortness of breath .
heart disease which occurs as a result of a primary pulmonary disease .
a disorder characterized by recurrent sexual urges ,  fantasies ,  or behaviors in a heterosexual male involving cross - dressing .
hemorrhage into a canal or cavity of the body ,  such as the space covered by the serous membrane  ( tunica vaginalis )  around the testis leading to testicular hematocele or scrotal hematocele .
a condition characterized by the dilated tortuous veins of the spermatic cord with a marked left - sided predominance .
a lymphoma that involves the retroperitoneal space .
a disorder characterized by a strong and persistent cross - gender identification  ( such as stating a desire to be the other sex or frequently passing as the other sex )  coupled with persistent discomfort with his or her sex  ( manifested in adults ,  for example ,  as a preoccupation with altering primary and secondary sex characteristics through hormonal manipulation or surgery )  .
a sarcoma involving a retroperitoneal space .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the retroperitoneal space .
a disorder characterized by recurrent sexual urges ,  fantasies ,  or behaviors involving the use of nonliving objects such as women's wearing apparel  ( the  \ "fetish \ " )  .
acute hepatitis resulting from ingestion of alcohol .
an labyrinthitis caused by infection with viruses .
a eustachian tube disorder with a wider eustachian tube which allows a larger bolus of bacteria - laden material from the nasopharynx during an infection to enter the middle ear ,  causing a more fulminant infection .
prolapse of the urethral mucosa from the exterior urethral opening .
spinal muscular atrophy  ( sma )  refers to a group of inherited conditions that affect the muscles .
acute inflammation of the intestine associated with infectious diarrhea of various etiologies ,  generally acquired by eating contaminated food containing toxins ,  biological derived from bacteria or other microorganisms .
the turning inward  ( inversion )  of the edge of the eyelid ,  with the tarsal cartilage turned inward toward the eyeball .
a disorder characterized by the recurrent failure to resist the impulse to steal items of little intrinsic value ;  the individual experiences a rising subjective sense of tension before the theft and a sense of gratification or relief during the theft .
a disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of serious assaultive acts or destruction of property due to a failure to resist aggressive impulses ;  the degree of aggression during these episodes is grossly out of proportion to any psychosocial provocation .
a disorder characterized by a fascination with fire and recurrent episodes of fire setting during which the individual experiences a rising subjective sense of tension before the fire setting and a sense of gratification or relief when setting the fire .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the labia minora .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the vulva .
a finding of low numbers of red and white blood cells and platelets in the peripheral blood .
a condition in which there is a deviation from or interruption of the normal coagulation properties of the blood .
a infectious disease involving the capillaria .
a disease involving the vagus nerve .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the vagina .
an urogenital tuberculosis involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the epididymis .
a ischemic disease that involves the retina .
a usually small tearing of the retina occurring when the vitreous separates from the retina .
an occupational lung disorder caused by inhalation of bagasse dust .
a peripheral nerve lesion that involves the plantar nerve .
a peripheral nerve lesion that involves the common fibular nerve .
a peripheral nerve lesion that involves the sciatic nerve .
a syndrome characterized by central nervous system dysfunction in association with liver failure ,  including portal - systemic shunts .
acute kidney injury associated with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia .
a wide group of related learning disorders characterized by difficulties with mathematics and manipulating numbers ;  the difficulty with math may be caused or exacerbated by visuo - spatial or language processing difficulties .
an abnormal condition characterized by an acute autoimmune reaction of the eye .
secondary glaucoma caused by either excessive size or spheric shape of the lens .
a hypermetabolic syndrome characterized by tachycardia ,  palpitations ,  tremor ,  weight loss ,  and moist skin that is caused by the elevation of thyroid hormone levels in the serum of the newborn infant or thyroid - axis receptor activation ,  most commonly due to transplacental passage of thyroid stimulating globulins .
blockage of the normal flow of urine in the urethra .
a bursitis that involves the olecranon .
a rare ,  lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid  ( oligohydramnios )  .
an abnormality characterized by thickening of the muscle in the wall of the pylorus .
narrowing of the pyloric lumen caused either by hypertrophy of the surrounding muscles or tissue scarring due to a chronic peptic ulcer .
a disease involving the vestibulocochlear nerve .
any inability to efficiently utilize and / or sustain binocular vision .
abnormally high concentration of calcium in the peripheral blood .
nephrocalcinosis is a disorder that occurs when too much calcium is deposited in the kidneys .
a disorder characterized by an impairment in the development of an individual's expressive and receptive language capabilities which is in contrast to his / her nonverbal intellect .
a type of benign brain tumor that begins in the schwann cells ,  which produce the myelin that protects the acoustic nerve  -  the nerve of hearing .
development of breast tissue in males .
a well - circumscribed benign smooth muscle neoplasm characterized by the presence of spindle cells with cigar - shaped nuclei ,  interlacing fascicles ,  and a whorled pattern .
a disease involving a capillary .
chronic form of gonococcal salpingitis .
local dilatation of small vessels resulting in red discoloration of the skin or mucous membranes .
infection with the respiratory syncytial virus ,  an rna virus of the genus pneumovirus ,  in the family paramyxoviridae ,  which is characterized by the formation of syncytia in tissue culture .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the lacrimal duct .
a substance abuse that involves the recurring use of hallucinogenic drugs despite negative consequences .
the most common type of mucopolysaccharidosis .
paralysis of all four limbs .
a disease that involves the rectum .
an bursitis involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the calcaneal tendon .
a neurological condition affecting the involuntary movements .
a somatoform disorder in which an individual is preoccupied with having a serious illness despite not having been given a corroborating diagnosis .
a disease involving the submandibular gland .
a benign lesion that involves the salivary glands ,  usually the parotid gland .
a benign cyst located in the salivary gland that is lined by epithelium and filled with mucoid fluid ,  tissue ,  or other material ;  it is usually caused by duct obstruction .
an malaria caused by infection with plasmodium ovale .
a carcinoma that arises from the labia minora .
leukemia infiltrating the central nervous system structures .
a neoplasm involving a vagus nerve .
a decrease in the number of mature granulocytes  ( neutrophils ,  eosinophils ,  and basophils )  in the peripheral blood .
acute form of dacryocystitis .
a narrowing of the carotid artery lumen .
localized or diffuse reduction in blood flow through the vertebrobasilar arterial system ,  which supplies the brain stem ;  cerebellum ;  occipital lobe ;  medial temporal lobe ;  and thalamus .
keratoconjunctivitis resulting from infection by adenoviruses .
a chronic ,  fungal ,  subcutaneous infection endemic in rural regions in south america and central america .
a condition characterized by sudden ,  temporary ,  usually short - lived memory loss ,  not associated with a neurologic disorder .
an infection that is caused by certain species of rickettsia or borrelia ,  which are transmitted to humans from infected lice ;  it is characterized by sudden fever ,  chills ,  headaches ,  myalgia ,  arthralgia ,  nausea ,  and possibly a rash .
an infection that is caused by certain species of rickettsia or borrelia ,  which are transmitted to humans from infected ticks ;  it is characterized by sudden fever ,  chills ,  headaches ,  myalgia ,  arthralgia ,  nausea ,  and possibly a rash .
acute form of sphenoid sinusitis .
a ovarian cyst  ( disease )  that involves the corpus luteum .
loss of intellectual abilities interfering with an individual's social and occupational functions .
a fungal infection of the nail ,  usually caused by dermatophytes ;  yeasts ;  or nondermatophyte molds .
an occlusion of a branch of the retinal artery .
a syndrome which occurs as a result of the occlusion of one of the vertebral arteries .
vascular diseases characterized by thickening and hardening of the walls of arteries inside the skull .
blockage of the central retinal artery .
a well - circumscribed benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the bladder .
a rare ,  benign neoplasm of bladder that is composed of papillary cores with overlying histologically benign squamous epithelium .
an spondylitis caused by infection with neisseria gonorrhoeae .
preeclampsia with a systolic blood pressure of 160 mmhg or higher ,  or a diastolic blood pressure of 110 mmhg or higher on two occasions at least 4 hours apart while on bedrest .
a hordeolum that results from obstruction and infection of an eyelash follicle and adjacent glands of zeis or moll glands .
inflammation of the glomeruli status post infection with nephritogenic streptococci ,  most often group a beta hemolytic streptococcus .
a histopathologic term for a pattern of diseases characterized by extensive crescent formation in the glomeruli ;  patients present clinically with rapid deterioration of renal function ,  and possible progression to end - stage renal failure within weeks or months .
mild to moderate high blood pressure that is caused by an underlying medical condition .
esophagitis resulting from candida .
infection of the esophagus caused by fungi ,  most often candida albicans and candida tropicalis .
an acute infection of the bladder .
a rare squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the scrotum .
a melanoma  ( disease )  that involves the scrotum .
a malignant neoplasm involving the prepuce .
a malignant neoplasm involving the spermatic cord .
an abnormal dilation of the esophagus not due to obstruction .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the brain .
sporadic enlargement of the thyroid gland that is not associated with changes in thyroid function or malignancy .
advanced retinopathy due to diabetes mellitus characterized by the formation of new vessels in the retina .
an early stage of diabetic retinopathy that is characterized by retinal hemorrhage and exudate ,  but without proliferation of the blood vessels .
a tularemia that results in inflammation of eye and swelling of lymph glands in front of the ear .
a retinal dystrophy with etiology arising from bruch's membrane ,  the site of drusen generation .
resorption of calcified dental tissue ,  involving demineralization due to reversal of the cation exchange and lacunar resorption by osteoclasts .
accumulation of mucus within the appendix .
a malignant neoplasm involving the bronchus
the condition of having at least three loose or liquid bowel movements each day .
inflammation of the colonic diverticula ,  generally with abscess formation and subsequent perforation .
a rare congenital metabolic disorder characterized by an inborn error of porphyrin - heme biosynthesis .
a tuberculosis that involves the intestine .
a benign papilloma that arises from the vagina in infants and young women .
a cystits which involves inflammation and formation of a dense fibrous false membrane on the mucous membrane of the bladder .
a peritonitis which involves inflammation of peritoneal cavity by corynebacterium diphtheriae .
inability of the exocrine pancreas to produce and secrete an adequate amount of digestive enzymes into the small intestine .
a malignant neoplasm involving the laryngeal cartilage .
a disorder characterized by recurrent sexual urges ,  fantasies ,  or behaviors involving sexual activity with a prepubescent child or children .
a gender identity disorder that is characterized by having a sexual orientation or an attraction that is at odds with one's idealized self - image ,  causing anxiety and a desire to change one's orientation or become more comfortable with one's sexual orientation .
a learning disability involving difficulty reading resulting primarily from neurological factors which affect any part of the reading process .
a dermatophytosis that involves the deep dermal layers .
a dermatophytosis that involves the hands .
anemia characterized by the presence of unusually large erythroblasts in the bone marrow called megaloblasts .
an anthrax disease that results in infection located in mucosa of gastrointestinal tract ,  has material basis in bacillus anthracis ,  which is transmitted by ingestion of anthrax - infected meat .
a carcinoma that arises from the labia majora .
the absence of or defect in the perception of colors .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the vagina and is characterized by the presence of neoplastic glandular epithelial cells .
a disease characterized by normocytic ,  normochromic anemia ,  low hematocrit ,  reticulocytopenia ,  and selective erythroid hypoplasia .
sarcoidosis of the cerebrum .
sarcoidosis affecting the tissues of the heart .
sarcoidosis affecting the lung parenchyma .
sarcoidosis with a complication of hypercalcemia .
a rupture in the wall of the extrahepatic or intrahepatic bile duct due to traumatic or pathologic processes .
hepatic encephalopathy is a syndrome observed in some patients with cirrhosis .
a receptive visual aphasia characterized by the loss of a previously possessed ability to comprehend the meaning or significance of handwritten words ,  despite intact vision .
an inborn condition characterized by deficiencies of red cell precursors that sometimes also includes leukopenia and thrombocytopenia .
a chronic skin and tissue disease caused by infection by the endemicum subspecies of the spirochete treponema pallidum .
inflammation of the sclera .
an bursitis caused by infection with neisseria gonorrhoeae .
an synovitis  ( disease )  caused by infection with neisseria gonorrhoeae .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the supraglottic area of the larynx .
a chronic and progressive inflammatory process that affects the glans penis and the foreskin .
a pediatric disorder characterized by normal development for at least the first two years of life followed by a severe regression in language ,  social interaction ,  bowel or bladder control ,  and / or motor skills .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the vagina and is characterized by the presence of benign epithelial and benign mesenchymal elements .
inflammation of the trigone of the urinary bladder .
hereditary disease characterized by seizures ,  mental retardation ,  developmental delay ,  and skin and ocular lesions .
a disease involving the paranasal sinus .
a syndrome of generalized rigidity with muscle spasms and seizures in the neonatal period resulting from clostridium tetani toxin production .
a labyrinthitis which is a bacterial infectious disease of the inner ear ,  often causing deafness and loss of vestibular function .
a rare squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the cornea .
hyperfunction of the parathyroid glands resulting in the overproduction of parathyroid hormone .
a lymphoma that arises from the paranasal sinus .
the sudden increase of intraocular pressure ,  resulting in pain and an abrupt decrease in visual acuity .
optic disk bodies composed primarily of acid mucopolysaccharides that may produce pseudopapilledema  ( elevation of the optic disk without associated intracranial hypertension )  and visual field deficits .
a carcinoma that arises from the maxillary sinus .
a senile cataract that involves the lens cortex .
impairment of the bile flow caused by obstruction within the liver ,  or outside the liver in the bile duct system .
a condition sometimes occurring after tooth extraction ,  particularly after traumatic extraction ,  resulting in a dry appearance of the exposed bone in the socket ,  due to disintegration or loss of the blood clot .
a potentially life - threatening pregnancy - related disorder characterized by tonic - clonic seizures in association with hypertension after the twentieth week of gestation and up to six weeks postpartum and in the absence of other potential causes of seizures .
a malignant neoplasm involving the frontal sinus .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the frontal sinus .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the paranasal sinus .
injury to the cornea secondary to ultraviolet light .
a condition associated with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency ,  which is characterized by hemolysis .
a tooth erosion ,  non - bacterial that involves the dentine .
a malignant neoplasm involving the ethmoid sinus .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the ethmoid sinus .
an acute or subacute inflammatory process of the central nervous system characterized histologically by multiple foci of perivascular demyelination .
a concretion in the prostate .
acute form of gonococcal cystitis .
a benign hamartomatous tumor that possesses various epidermal derivatives and is due to sequestration of skin along the lines of embryonic closure .
a benign papillary neoplasm that arises from the vagina and is characterized by the presence of a fibrovascular stalk lined by normal squamous epithelium .
a disorder characterized by persistent or recurrent ejaculation before or after penetration and before the person wishes it .
a benign mesothelial tumor of the serosal surface of the uterine body and myometrium .
a cataract that produces swelling and opacity of the entire lens ;  cataracts are removed before maturity .
a non - infiltrating ,  benign mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the uterine corpus .
a neurofibroma that arises from the spinal cord .
a benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the spinal cord .
diseases of the lacrimal apparatus .
infestation of the pubic hair by the pthirus pubis parasite which results in mild to intense itching and macular lesions .
a wart in the plantar surface of the foot .
chancroid is a bacterial infection that is spread through sexual contact .
a tympanic membrane disease that is characterized by blisters on the eardrum resulting from infection .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the squamous epithelium of the vagina .
a type of familial lipid metabolism disorder characterized by a variable pattern of elevated plasma cholesterol and / or triglycerides .
a disease involving the hypoglossal nerve .
a cataract resulting from hypocalcemia .
acute form of angle - closure glaucoma .
neuralgic syndromes which feature chronic or recurrent facial pain as the primary manifestation of disease .
a labyrinthitis which is an infectious inflammatory disease of a circumscribed area of either the vestibular or the cochlear portion of the labyrinth ,  or of both together .
a disorder characterized by a recurrent or persistent lack of desire for sexual activity .
conditions with abnormally low levels of lipoproteins in the blood .
a constellation of signs and symptoms which may include syncope ,  fatigue ,  dizziness ,  and alternating periods of bradycardia and atrial tachycardia ,  which is caused by sinoatrial node dysfunction .
a disease or disorder affecting more than one nerve .
a benign epithelial neoplasm characterized by a papillary growth pattern and a proliferation of neoplastic squamous cells without morphologic evidence of malignancy .
a superficial mycosis due to t beigelii that is characterized by a soft ,  friable ,  beige nodule of the distal ends of hair shafts .
non - heritable difficulty in distinguishing colors .
a nerve plexus disease that involves the lumbosacral nerve plexus .
disorders having the presence of physical symptoms that suggest a general medical condition but that are not fully explained by a another medical condition ,  by the direct effects of a substance ,  or by another mental disorder .
an acute bacterial infection that affects the esophagus .
blockage of the tear duct .
a disorder of the neural pathway from the optic nerve to the visual cortex .
severe or complete loss of facial muscle motor function .
the absence of menses in a woman who has achieved reproductive age .
acute form of gonococcal salpingitis .
acute form of gonococcal prostatitis .
a morphologic variant of uterine corpus leiomyoma characterized by the presence of round or polygonal epithelioid smooth muscle cells forming clusters .
a rare morphologic variant of uterine corpus leiomyoma .
a morphologic variant of uterine corpus leiomyoma characterized by extensive myxoid degeneration of the neoplasm connective tissue stroma .
a rare morphologic variant of uterine corpus leiomyoma characterized by the presence of scattered islands of mature adipocytes within the smooth muscle neoplasm .
a morphologic variant of uterine corpus leiomyoma characterized by significant cytologic atypia .
a senile cataract that involves the lens nucleus .
a form of hypermature cataract formed by liquefaction of the cortex and sinking of the dense nucleus to the bottom of the capsular bag .
a non - hodgkin or hodgkin lymphoma that arises from the small intestine .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the lacrimal apparatus .
a brucellosis involving an infection caused by brucella canis  [ ncbitaxon:36855 ]  in dogs and humans .
idiopathic painful nonsuppurative swellings of one or more costal cartilages ,  especially of the second rib .
an aortic disease that is characterized by an absence of an opening from the left ventricle of the heart into the aorta .
a bipolar disorder that is characterized by at least one manic or mixed episode .
an opportunistic fungal infection caused by any of a variety of normally saprophytic fungi with hyaline hyphal elements .
an angle - closure glaucoma characterized by closure of the anterior chamber angle by an intrinsic defect such that aqueous outflow is blocked and the intraocular pressure becomes inappropriately elevated leading to optic nerve damage and visual field loss .
a malignant neoplasm involving the paraurethral gland .
acute post streptococcal glomerulonephritis is an immunologic response of the kidney to infection ,  characterized by the sudden appearance of edema ,  hematuria ,  proteinuria and hypertension .
an acute inflammation of the glomeruli ,  in which all glomeruli are affected ,  resulting in acute renal failure .
diseases of the facial nerve or nuclei .
a labyrinthitis induced by alcohol ,  drug ingestion ,  or occasionally ,  inhaled substances that are toxic to the inner ear .
inflammation of the lateral epicondyle .
a atherosclerosis that involves the renal artery .
an instance of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a malignant neoplasm involving the anus
a rare acute life - threatening systemic bacterial noncontagious illness caused by exotoxins from bacteria of either the streptococcus pyogenes or staphylococcus aureus type .
the presence of bacteria in the urine which is normally bacteria - free .
a condition that is caused by recurring atheroembolism in the lower extremities .
a neoplasm involving a abducens nerve .
a syndrome characterized by laceration in the posterior leaf of broad ligament along with abnormally mobile cervix .
a usually large cell non - hodgkin lymphoma of b - cell phenotype ,  arising from the anus .
the inability of the ovaries to function .
a tooth erosion ,  non - bacterial that involves the dental pulp .
a non - hodgkin or hodgkin lymphoma that arises in the spinal cord as a primary lesion .
a melanoma  ( disease )  that involves the spinal cord .
a sarcoma that arises from the spinal cord .
acute form of retrobulbar neuritis .
an abnormal accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid within the ventricles of the brain that occurs as a consequence of an obstruction at any location within the ventricular system that prevents cerebrospinal fluid flowing into the subarachnoid space .
a disease involving the optic choroid .
a classification of dysgammaglobulinemias characterized by low or undetectable serum levels of one of the four immunoglobulin class g  ( igg )  subclasses .
an instance of agammaglobulinemia that is present from birth .
dermatomyositis in an adult .
a group of genetic disorders of the kidney tubules characterized by the accumulation of metabolically produced acids with elevated plasma chloride ,  hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
a disorder characterized by bluish - black discoloration of the cartilaginous tissues due to accumulation of homogentisic acid .
abnormal deposits of calcium in the tracheal tissue .
acute form of frontal sinusitis .
decreased number of spermatozoa in the semen .
a rare form of necrotizing anterior scleritis without pain in which the sclera is notably white ,  avascular and thin .
a tularemia that results in formation of ulcerative lesions located in gastrointestinal tract .
chronic form of perichondritis of auricle .
otitis media that persists for at least six weeks ,  and that is associated with otorrhea through a perforated tympanic membrane .
a chronic purulent otitis media which involves perforation in the attic region  ( pars flaccida of the tympanic membrane )  or at the posterosuperior margin ,  with in - growth of squamous epithelium into the middle ear .
an abscess that is located in the ureter .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the ureter .
dysfunction of the pulmonary valve characterized by incomplete valve closure .
cholangitis that is characterized by pyogenic organisms .
acute infection of the bile ducts caused by bacteria ascending from the small intestine .
cholangitis that is both sudden in onset and of a relatively short duration .
inflammation of the tissue surrounding the biliary ducts .
a disease involving the endocrine pancreas .
chronic progressive degeneration of the stress - bearing portion of a joint ,  with bizarre hypertrophic changes at the periphery .
a non - neoplastic lesion that affects the vulva and is characterized by thinning or thickening of the skin and dryness .
a hemangioma arising from the skin .
inflammation of the lung parenchyma that is associated with pleurisy ,  inflammation of the pleura .
the lack of vision .it is caused by neurological or physiological factors .
an anxiety disorder characterized by excessive and difficult - to - control worry about a number of life situations .
malaria resulting from infection by plasmodium malariae .
a malaria that involves infection with more than one species of plasmodium at the same time .
a disease believed to be caused by a viral illness that triggers degeneration of the nerve cells in the substantia nigra .
abnormally high level of estrogen .
acute inflammatory disease of the thyroid gland due to infections by bacteria ;  fungi ;  or other microorganisms .
an inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology that affects the thyroid gland .
acute form of thyroiditis  ( disease )  .
a rare ,  severe form of scabies that is associated with immunosuppression .
a malignant neoplasm involving the parietal lobe
the presence of excessive white blood cells in the urine as determined by urinalysis .
a thrombophlebitis that is characterized by repeated occurances of thrombophlebitis in different locations .
a dysentery that involves protozoan infection .
a syndrome characterized by leakage of intravascular fluids into the extravascular space .
a suppurative otitis media which is an inflammatory disease of the middle ear cleft characterized by the presence of a persisting perforation within the pars tensa of the tympanic membrane ,  intermittent profuse muco - purulent otorrhea and gradually progressive conductive hearing loss of more than 12 weeks duration .
chronic form of angle - closure glaucoma .
a congenital disorder characterized by the presence of extremely hypoplastic gonads preventing the development of secondary sex characteristics .
a type of defective gonadal development in patients with a wide spectrum of chromosomal mosaic variants .
hypersensitivity pneumonitis caused by the repeated exposure and inhalation of biological dust  ( such as hay dust ,  mold spores ,  or other agricultural products )  .
a brucellosis that involves an infection caused by brucella melitensis  [ ncbitaxon:29459 ]  in cattle ,  goats ,  sheep and humans .
a bacterial infection caused by brucella abortus that spreads from cattle to humans .
a hemangioma arising from the orbit .
a cavernous hemangioma arising from the orbit .
a rare movement disorder developed during pregnancy ,  characterized by involuntary jerky motion  ( chorea )  and inability to maintain stable position of body parts  ( athetosis )  .
a lymphoma that involves the ureter .
carcinoma of the ureter without spread to any other region .
a disorder of the gastrointestinal tract .
a group of inherited ,  severe metabolic disorders in which sphingomyelin accumulates in lysosomes in cells .
a candidiasis that results in fungal infection of the outer - most layer located in nail ,  has material basis in candida species .
a partial occlusion of the retinal artery .
a very rare malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor that arises from the heart .
a rare malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the pericardium .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the rete testis
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the seminal vesicle
a malignant neoplasm involving the sphenoidal sinus .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the mucosal epithelial surface of the sphenoid sinus .
resorption in which cementum or dentin is lost from the root of a tooth owing to cementoclastic or osteoclastic activity in conditions such as trauma of occlusion or neoplasms .
conditions which produce injury or dysfunction of the second cranial or optic nerve ,  which is generally considered a component of the central nervous system .
increased blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs ;  the etiology is unknown .
swelling around the optic disc ,  usually due to increased intracranial pressure or pressure on the optic nerve by a tumor .
a cholesterol embolism that involves the kidney .
a labyrinthitits in which bacterial toxins invade the inner ear .
inflammation of the inner ear .
an episode of depression lasting two or more weeks without an intervening episode of mania .
fg syndrome  ( fgs )  is a genetic condition that affects many parts of the body and occurs almost exclusively in males .
a rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations of the mut ,  mmaa ,  mmab ,  mmadhc ,  and mcee genes .
a benign lesion composed of dilated lymphatic channels .
the rare autosomal recessive form of the vascular type of ehlers - danlos syndrome .
a condition marked by recurrent seizures that occur during the first 4 - 6 weeks of life despite an otherwise benign neonatal course .
a group of sporadic and inherited neurodegenerative disorders affecting the cerebellum ,  pons ,  and inferior olives .
a disease involving the gingiva .
a disease that involves the orbital region .
a disorder characterized by behavioral and / or psychological abnormalities ,  often accompanied by physical symptoms .
infection with the organism candida .
a disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of avoidance of social situations and interpersonal contact due to overwhelming feelings of social inadequacy and a hypersensitivity to negative evaluation or rejection .
a diverse category of psychiatric disorders characterized by behavior that deviates markedly from the expectations of the individual's culture ;  this pattern of deviation is pervasive and inflexible and is stable over time .
chronic form of gonococcal cervicitis .
chronic inflammation of the cervix .
pathological developments in the cecum .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the colon
a malignant neoplasm involving the caecum
an extranodal lymphoma that arises from the cecum .
an extranodal lymphoma that arises from the colon .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the penis .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the pleura .
a carcinoma that arises from the head and neck region .
a disease affects cognitive processes .
superficial infections of the skin or its appendages by any of various fungi .
an infection caused by a fungus .
an ectropion with a mechanical etiology .
the turning outward  ( eversion )  of the edge of the eyelid ,  resulting in the exposure of the palpebral conjunctiva .
an abnormal accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid within the ventricles of the brain that occurs as a consequence of impaired cerebrospinal fluid reabsorption by the arachnoid granulations .
the use of alcoholic beverages to excess ,  either on individual occasions  (  \ "binge drinking \ " )  or as a regular practice .
a general class of thrombocytopenia due to immune destruction of platelets .
a laboratory test result indicating that there is an abnormally small number of platelets in the circulating blood .
a melancholy feeling of sadness and despair .
a disease involving the integumental system .
acute or chronic inflammation of one or more lymph nodes .
a very rare ,  benign sweat gland neoplasm that affects the breast .
a benign tumor of the breast characterized by the presence of stromal and epithelial elements .
a well - circumscribed benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the breast .
a benign ,  well circumscribed neoplasm that arises from the breast .
an intraluminal papillary epithelial neoplasm arising within the ducts .
a benign or malignant papillary neoplasm that arises anywhere in the ductal system of the breast .
a myofibroblastoma occurring in the breast of both women and men .
a benign breast neoplasm characterized by the proliferation of multiple papillomas .
a benign diffuse vascular proliferation in the breast .
a benign ,  nodular tumor that arises from the breast parenchyma .
a usually benign tumor arising from the breast .
a cancer that involves the uberon:0035289 .
the presence of a defect  ( opening )  in the septum that separates the two ventricles of the heart .
primary and metastatic  ( secondary )  tumors of the brain located above the tentorium cerebelli ,  a fold of dura mater separating the cerebellum and brain stem from the cerebral hemispheres and diencephalon  ( i .e . ,  thalamus and hypothalamus and related structures )  .
a rare neoplasm usually occurring in infants .
a malignant germ cell tumor that arises in the pineal region .
arthropathy resulting from behcet's syndrome .
abnormal presence of air in the pleural cavity .
a congenital disorder characterized by the presence of an abnormal communication between the atria or the ventricles of the heart due to defects in the cardiac septum .
a disease involving the musculoskeletal system .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the epithelial cells of an endocrine organ .
transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia into aggressive non - hodgkin's lymphoma ,  usually diffuse large b - cell lymphoma  ( immunoblastic or centroblastic variant )  .
an acanthoma characterized by the presence of psoriasiform epidermal acanthosis and basal cells with pale cytoplasm .
a malignant neoplasm involving the peritoneum
an occlusion of the retinal vasculature .
a neoplasm involving a eccrine sweat gland .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the small intestine .
a benign skin neoplasm composed of epithelial cells .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the blood vessels .
a malignant melanoma within the conjunctiva of the eye .
a disease involving the facial nerve .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with histoplasma capsulatum .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the cardiovascular system .
a neoplasm involving a facial nerve .
an inflammatory process affecting the lip .
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by physical or psychological symptoms that are intentionally produced in order to assume the sick role ;  there is no external incentive for the behavior ,  such as economic gain or avoiding legal responsibility ,  and the person is unaware of any self - motivating factors .
conversion disorder is a disorder in which a person experiences blindness ,  paralysis ,  or other symptoms affecting the nervous system that cannot be explained solely by a physical illness or injury .
an acute form of megacolon ,  severe pathological dilatation of the colon .
a malignant neoplasm involving the thyroid gland
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the pituitary gland .
a benign ,  testicular or ovarian tumor ,  derived from adrenal embryonic rest cells .
a rare ,  benign neoplasm that arises from the peritoneum and is characterized by the presence of gland like structures .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the peritoneum and resembles the malignant surface epithelial - stromal tumors that arise from the ovary .
a lymphoma that arises from the pancreas with the bulk of the tumor localized to this organ .
a malignant neoplasm that arises from the epithelial cells of the exocrine pancreatic tissue .
a rare malignant soft tissue neoplasm that occurs primarily in the pancreas .
a disease involving the renal system .
a well circumscribed lesion of the bone ,  most frequently arising from the posterior mandible .
a malignant neuroendocrine neoplasm composed of cells containing secretory granules that stain positive for nse and chromogranin .
neuritis of a single nerve .
a neuropathy arising from inflammation of one or more nerves .
deposition of calcium in the tissues .
a life - threatening situation in which the brain is in a continuous state of seizure .
narrowing of any part of the urethra .
a painful asymmetric asynchronous sensory and motor peripheral neuropathy involving isolated damage to at least 2 separate nerve areas ;  associated with  ( but not limited to )  systemic disorders such as diabetes ,  vasculitis ,  amyloidosis ,  direct tumor involvement ,  polyarteritis nodosa ,  rheumatoid arthritis ,  systemic lupus erythematosus ,  and paraneoplastic syndromes .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the bone or articular cartilage .
a disease affecting a single peripheral nerve of the upper limb .
a malignant neoplasm involving the jaw skeleton
a malignant neoplasm involving the skull .
chronic form of rheumatic pericarditis .
physiological disturbances in normal sexual performance in either the male or the female .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the optic nerve  ( second cranial nerve )  .
a allergic contact dermatitis that involves the eyelid .
pathological processes in the sigmoid colon region of the large intestine  ( intestine ,  large )  .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the vagina .
an undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma arising from the skin .
an undifferentiated soft tissue sarcoma characterized by the presence of a pleomorphic malignant cellular infiltrate .
a rare yolk sac tumor that arises from the vagina .
a congenital disorder characterized by abnormalities in the development of the sexual characteristics .
a disorder characterized by decreased function of the gonads .
a malignant neoplasm involving the reproductive organ
neoplastic ,  inflammatory ,  infectious ,  and other diseases of the hypothalamus .
a scalp hair loss condition characterized by excessive shedding of hair in the resting phase of growth ,  usually following a fever or major body stress .
an infection that is caused by trichomonas .
an acute or chronic inflammation involving the gallbladder wall .
a disease involving the fallopian tube .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the fallopian tube .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the fallopian tube .
an extremely rare malignant neoplasm that arises from the fallopian tube and is characterized by the presence of a benign epithelial component and a sarcomatous component .
a well - circumscribed tumor of the thymus composed of islands of normal thymic parenchyma and mature adipose tissue .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the rectum .
an extranodal lymphoma that arises from the rectum .
an aggressive malignant melanocytic neoplasm that arises from the rectum .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the rectum .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the rectum .
chronic form of otosalpingitis .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant tumor that arises from the bone or soft tissue .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the pharyngotympanic tube .
a tumor that grows from a nerve or is composed of nerve cells and nerve fibers .
a membrane on the vitreal surface of the retina resulting from the proliferation of one or more of three retinal elements:  ( 1 )  fibrous astrocytes ;   ( 2 )  fibrocytes ;  and  ( 3 )  retinal pigment epithelial cells .
a malignant neoplasm involving the connective tissue
abnormally high levels of insulin in the blood .
a malignant neoplasm involving the placenta .
non - neoplastic overgrowth of bone .
a disorder characterized by an individual's inability to comprehend or share ideas or feelings because of an impairment in language ,  speech ,  or hearing .
a disorder involving the attachment of a tendon or ligament to a bone
liver disease lasting six months or more ,  caused by an adverse drug effect .
excessive thickening of bone .
acute form of maxillary sinusitis .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the vulva .
a benign neoplasm that arises from sweat glands in the vulva and is characterized by the presence of lobules composed of epithelial cells with clear cytoplasm .
a benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the sweat glands .
a benign neoplasm that arises from eccrine ducts in the vulva and is characterized by the presence of tubules and cysts which are lined by epithelial cells in the densely fibrotic dermis .
a benign sweat gland neoplasm usually affecting the lower eyelids and upper cheeks .
an uncommon benign lesion in the vulva .
a benign neoplasm that affects the bartholin gland .
a benign papillary neoplasm that arises from the vulva and is characterized by the presence of a delicate fibrovascular stalk lined by squamous epithelium .
a benign ,  precancerous ,  or malignant neoplasm that arises from the squamous epithelium of the vulva .
a rare ,  benign neoplasm that arises from the vulva it is characterized by the presence of clusters of small glands lined by mucinous epithelial cells .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the vulva and is composed of glandular epithelial cells .
a benign neoplasm that arises from the vulva and is characterized by the presence of epithelial cells forming nests and tubules in a fibrotic stroma .
a rare ,  benign ,  slow - growing and painless neoplasm of sweat glands .
a benign neoplasm that arises from the vulva and is characterized by the presence of nests of monomorphic basaloid cells forming small cysts that contain keratin .
irregular and infrequent or difficult evacuation of the bowels .
arthritis that is not permanent .
a usually pigmented ,  nodular or polypoid malignant neoplasm that originates from melanocytes and arises from the vulva .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the sweat glands .
an uncommon intraepithelial malignant neoplasm of eccrine or apocrine origin ,  arising from the vulva .
a bony outgrowth on the lower surface of the calcaneus .
a broad classification of disorders where circulating numbers of b lymphocytes are decreased or ineffective .
a tularemia that is located in lungs .
a germinoma  ( disease )  that involves the brain .
a sarcoma arising from the brain .
a sarcoma that arises from the central nervous system .
a cancer that involves the temporal lobe .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the paraurethral gland .
papilloma's are benign epithelial neoplasms that produce visible warty projections from epithelial surfaces .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the urethra .
a rare malignant mesothelial neoplasm that usually involves both the ovarian surface and the ovarian stroma .
a cystic cancerous tumor arising from the ovary .
a rare ,  aggressive malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the ovary .
an urogenital tuberculosis involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the ovary .
a lymphoma that affects the ovary .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant tumor that originates from the surface epithelium of the ovary .
an embryonal neoplasm arising from the ovary with morphologic features resembling wilms tumor of the kidney .
a disease involving the nasal cavity .
a dental caries that involves the enamel .
a non - infectious or infectious inflammatory process affecting the vagina .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the eyelid .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the structures of the eye .
an infection of cutaneous and subcutaneous tissue that consists of a cluster of boils .
a malignant neoplasm involving the ascending colon .
acute form of perichondritis of auricle .
an acquired or inherited coagulation disorder due to reduced levels and activity of factor xiii .
congenital or acquired deficiency of one of the coagulation factors .
spontaneous or near spontaneous bleeding caused by a defect in clotting mechanisms  ( blood coagulation disorders )  or another abnormality causing a structural flaw in the blood vessels  ( hemostatic disorders )  .
a coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor vii activity in the blood .
disorders caused by abnormalities in platelet count or function .
an otitis externa involving infection of the tissue surrounding the cartilage of the earlobe  ( pinna )  ,  ear canal ,  or both .
a coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor x activity in the blood .
a disease characterized by higher than normal platelet counts in the peripheral blood .
a syndrome which occurs as a result of the occlusion of the basilar artery .
an active inflammatory process affecting the liver for more than six months .
hepatitis that is characterized by the presence of granulomas .
a degenerative spinal disease that can involve any part of the vertebra ,  the intervertebral disk ,  and the surrounding soft tissue .
a group of signs ,  symptoms ,  and clinicopathological characteristics that may or may not have a genetic basis and collectively define an abnormal condition .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the cervix .
fixation and immobility of a joint .
inflammation of the throat most often caused by viral and bacterial infections .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the testis or the ovary .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the apocrine sweat gland .
any disorder of the cornea .
a lymphangioma that involves the capillary .
a disease involving the female reproductive system .
motor behavior that is repetitive ,  often seemingly driven ,  and nonfunctional .
an extrinsic allergic alveolitis caused by infection with aspergillus .
any disorder marked by obstruction of conducting airways of the lung .
an uncomfortable ,  often painful feeling in the stomach ,  resulting from impaired digestion .
an inflammatory disorder that affects the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract .
inflammation of the stomach resulting from viral infection .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the colon
a laboratory test result indicating abnormally high proliferation of gamma globulins in the blood originating from multiple cell lines .
an inherited metabolic disorder that involves plasma protein metabolism malfunction .
a disease characterized by the presence of excessive amounts of paraprotein or single monoclonal gammaglobulin in the blood .
atherosclerosis that is not localized .
a vascular disorder characterized by thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm arising from the wall of the colon .
disorders in the processing of iron in the body: its absorption ,  transport ,  storage ,  and utilization .
a reduction in the number of red blood cells ,  the amount of hemoglobin ,  and / or the volume of packed red blood cells .
anemia that is characterized by increased red blood cell volume .
a mosquito - borne viral illness caused by the west nile virus ,  a flavivirus and endemic to regions of africa ,  asia ,  and europe .
a nonspecific term referring both to the pathologic finding of swelling of distal portions of axons in the brain and to disorders which feature this finding .
a disease involving the pupil .
a disease involving the renal artery .
a reactive inflammatory disorder affecting the bladder .
a disease involving the iris .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the clitoris .
a granular cell tumor that involves the zone of skin .
a ganglioneuroma arising from the skin .
a glomus tumor arising from the skin .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the hair follicles ,  sebaceous glands ,  or sweat glands .
a glomus tumor arising from the skin .
a morphologic variant of the glomus tumor characterized by the presence of dilated veins ,  surrounded by small clusters of glomus cells .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant neoplasm that arises from the dermis .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the mucosal epithelial surface of the frontal sinus .
blockage of the central retinal vein .
protein s deficiency is a disorder that causes abnormal blood clotting .
a condition characterized by an abnormally high level of thrombi .
a blepharoconjunctivitis that is characterized by fissuring ,  scaling ,  maceration and erythema of the lateral or medial canthal area .
inflammation of both the eyelids and the conjunctiva .
conjunctivitis that is associated with contact lens wear ,  and which is characterized by giant papillae in the tarsal conjunctiva .
conjunctivitis that is characterized by the formation of papillae on the palpebral conjunctiva .
retinal damage resulting from diminished blood flow / oxygenation due to abnormalities of the retinal vessels .
a mycosis that arises from infection in an immunologically compromised host .
inflammation of the cornea that is seasonal in nature .
conjunctivitis that is persistent and long - standing .
inflammation or degeneration of the peripheral motor nerves .
an illusion of movement ,  either of the external world revolving around the individual or of the individual revolving in space .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the trachea .
a metabolic disorder that affects the phosphate homeostasis .
an abnormality of the nervous system that is present at birth or detected in the neonatal period .
inflammation or degeneration of the sensory nerves .
acquired degenerative dilation or expansion  ( ectasia )  of normal blood vessels ,  often associated with aging .
a capillary hemangioma of the skin ,  presenting as a red papular lesion .
progressive loss of tooth tissue by chemical processes that do not involve bacterial action .
a cavernous hemangioma arising from the brain and meninges .
a hemangioma arising from the brain and meninges .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the testis .
a group of mental disorders associated with organic brain damage and caused by poisoning from alcohol .
pathological processes of the kidney without inflammatory or neoplastic components .
a disease involving the spleen .
an abscess that is located in the spleen .
neoplasms of the hematopoietic system ,  including hematopoietic cell neoplasms  ( e .g .
an immunologic inflammatory disorder characterized by loss of myelin in the peripheral nerves .
a hemangioma arising from organs within the abdominal cavity .
an epilepsy syndrome that is located in an area of the brain other than the temporal lobe .
inflammation of the arteries that is characterized by the presence of granulomas .
pathological processes involving the chondral tissue  ( cartilage )  .
a hemangioma arising from the spleen .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process that affects the cervix .
a drug dependence that involves the continued use of barbiturates despite problems related to use of the substance .
an instance of nephrotic syndrome that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the glottic area of the larynx .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the larynx .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the glottic area of the larynx .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the larynx .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the glottis .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the pancreas .
a malignant neoplasm involving the hepatic flexure of colon .
carcinoma that arises from the laryngeal epithelium .
a benign neoplasm of bone surface composed of hyaline cartilage .
a benign well circumscribed neoplasm of hyaline cartilage arising from bone or soft tissue .
a malignant neoplasm involving the transverse colon .
a non - invasive papillary serous epithelial neoplasm usually arising from the ovary .
a benign epithelial neoplasm that projects above the surrounding epithelial surface and consists of villous or arborescent outgrowths of fibrovascular stroma .
a hemangiopericytoma arising from the kidney .
benign and malignant neoplasms which arise from or directly involve the central or peripheral elements of the autonomic nervous system .
primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the kidney .
a malignant cystic serous epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells forming papillary structures .
a benign or borderline cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the glandular epithelium .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant transitional cell neoplasm arising from the ovary .
a morphologic variant of breast fibroadenoma without clinical significance .
a teratoma of the ovary composed exclusively or predominantly of a single type of tissue derived from the ectoderm or endoderm .
a benign proliferative neoplasm made up of epithelial and mesenchymal cells of the mesothelium which make up part of the serosal covering and lining of various organ surfaces within the body .
a benign ,  well circumscribed neoplasm arising from the sebaceous glands .
a malignant vascular neoplasm arising from the spleen .
a morphologic variant of breast fibroadenoma without clinical significance .
a mature teratoma characterized by the presence of a cyst which is lined by mature tissue resembling the epidermis and the epidermal appendages .
a benign or malignant tumor characterized by the presence of cells that show myoepithelial differentiation .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the sweat glands .
a term describing a benign soft tissue tumor which consists of two or more mesenchymal lines of differentiation ,  excluding a fibroblastic line of differentiation .
a neurofibroma characterized by the presence of structures which resemble vater - pacini corpuscles .
a benign encapsulated neoplasm of the kidney ,  characterized by the presence of cysts separated by septa .
a rare ,  usually benign neoplasm that arises from the kidney .
a malignant vascular neoplasm arising from the liver .
a papillary epithelial neoplasm arising in a cystically dilated breast duct .
an adenoma arising from the renal cortex .
a benign ,  solitary ,  and partially cystic neoplasm arising from the kidney .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the liver .
a benign adenofibroma characterized by the presence of epithelial cells which contain intracytoplasmic mucin and a fibrotic stroma .
a well - circumscribed ,  lobulated tumor ,  completely or partially covered by a fibrous capsule .
inflammation of a synovial membrane .
an uncommon malignant tumor arising from the tendon sheath .
a malignant neoplasm characterized by then presence of atypical giant cells .
a cancer that involves the layer of synovial tissue .
a hemangioma arising from the liver .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic vascular disorder that affects the liver .
an inflammatory process affecting the skin .
a common hemangioma characterized by the presence of capillary - sized vascular channels without prominent epithelioid endothelial cells .
an inherited disorder affecting the metabolism of bilirubin .
a disease involving the auditory system .
a disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of grandiose beliefs and arrogant behavior together with an overwhelming need for admiration and a lack of empathy for  ( and even exploitation of )  others .
an inherited metabolic disorder characterized either by defects in glycogen synthesis or defects in the breaking down of glycogen .
glycogenosis due to glucose - 6 - phosphatase  ( g6p )  deficiency or glycogen storage disease ,   ( gsd )  ,  type 1 ,  is a group of inherited metabolic diseases ,  including types a and b ,  and characterized by poor tolerance to fasting ,  growth retardation and hepatomegaly resulting from accumulation of glycogen and fat in the liver .
a hemangioma arising from the stomach .
a carcinoma that involves the bone element .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the mucosal epithelial surface of the ethmoid sinus .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the epithelial cell
a neurological disorder presenting in childhood that is characterized by motor and / or phonic tics that occur daily or nearly daily for one to twelve months and are not attributed to an identifiable cause .
disorders characterized by recurrent tics that may interfere with speech and other activities .
a low grade malignant neoplasm arising from the long bones .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the rectosigmoid region .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm that arises from the rectosigmoid area and invades through the muscularis mucosa into the submucosa .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the rectosigmoid area .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the lung .
diseases that affect the structure or function of the cerebellum .
an infection that is caused by protozoans .
a class of diffuse lung diseases that typically affect the pulmonary interstitium ,  although some also have a component affecting the airways  ( for instance ,  cryptogenic organizing pneumonitis )  .
a malignant neoplasm involving the vestibulocochlear nerve .
abnormal malignant growth of the cells that comprise the cranial nerve .
a cancer involving a oculomotor nerve .
a neoplasm involving a oculomotor nerve .
a disease involving the nose .
polycythemia resulting from dehydration .
an instance of polycythemia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
polycythemia that is caused by excess erythropoietin .
an autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the kcne1 and kcnq1 genes .
a condition that is characterized by episodes of fainting  ( syncope )  and varying degree of ventricular arrhythmia as indicated by the prolonged qt interval .
excessive clenching of the jaw and grinding of the teeth .
a subtype of depression characterized by the inability to find pleasure in positive things combined with physical agitation ,  insomnia ,  or decreased appetite .
a malignant tumor arising from the epithelium that lines the cavity of the uterine body .
a rare malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the larynx .
focal benign glandular hyperplasia in the prostate gland .
a rare benign neoplasm that arises from the prostate gland and is characterized by the presence of hyperplastic glands and stroma that contains spindle - shaped cells .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the prostate .
pathological processes involving the vestibulocochlear nerve ;  brainstem ;  or central nervous system .
a adenoma that involves the thyroid gland .
a carcinoma that arises from the squamous epithelium of the exocervix .
treacher - collins syndrome is a congenital disorder of craniofacial development characterized by bilateral symmetrical oto - mandibular dysplasia without abnormalities of the extremities ,  and associated with several head and neck defects .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of type iv hypersensitivity .
a cancer that involves the lacrimal apparatus .
inflammation of the glomeruli characterized by deposits at the intraglomerular mesangium ,  resulting in thickening of the glomerular basement membrane ,  activation of complement ,  and impaired kidney function secondary to damaged glomeruli .
a renal disorder characterized by damage in the glomeruli .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the lacrimal gland .
a malignant neoplasm involving the lacrimal gland .
inflammation of the bronchioles characterized by swelling of the bronchioles and mucus accumulation .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the eye
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the inner ear .
a carcinoma arising in a pre - existing pleomorphic adenoma in the lacrimal gland .
a trichothiodystrophy that is photosensitive ,  and caused by defects in the ner pathway
inflammation or irritation of a synovial bursa ,  the fibrous sac that acts as a cushion between moving structures of bones ,  muscles ,  tendons or skin .
a carcinoma arising in a pre - existing pleomorphic adenoma .
a congenital or acquired kidney disorder characterized by the presence of renal cysts .
a hereditary disorder characterized by excessive oxalate production ,  leading to hyperoxaluria .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the lacrimal gland
absence of urine output .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the prostate gland .
a biphasic neoplasm that arises from the ovary or the testis .
a sex cord - gonadal stromal tumor consists of leydig cells ;  sertoli cells ;  and fibroblasts in varying proportions and degree of differentiation .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor of the female reproductive system characterized by the presence of glands and / or cysts lined by neoplastic cells that resemble endometrial cells .
an epithelial neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the ovary .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises in the area of the nipple .
a benign or malignant tumor that arises from the breast and originates from or is composed of myoepithelial cells .
a neoplasm that arises from the breast and is composed of cells of neuroendocrine origin .
a spectrum of non - invasive neoplastic lesions that arise from the terminal ductal lobular units of the breast .
a usually benign neoplasm that arises from the breast .
a benign or malignant epithelial neoplasm that arises anywhere in the ductal system of the breast .
a phyllodes tumor of the breast characterized by infiltrative margins and a sarcomatous stromal component .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the breast .
the use of a drug for a reason other than which it was intended or in a manner or in quantities other than directed .
sudden and sustained deterioration of the kidney function characterized by decreased glomerular filtration rate ,  increased serum creatinine or oliguria .
an invasive adenocarcinoma of the prostate gland composed of secretory cells .
a category of psychiatric disorders which include disorders related to the taking of a drug of abuse  ( including alcohol ,  prescribed medications and recreational drugs )  .
an invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells which contain prominent intracytoplasmic mucin  ( signet ring cells )  .
an adenocarcinoma of the colon that has invaded into the submucosa .
gastrointestinal disturbances ,  skin eruptions ,  or shock due to allergic reactions to allergens in food .
a who grade iv malignant astrocytic tumor that arises from the brain ,  usually the cerebral hemispheres .
an astrocytic tumor occurring during adulthood .
an astrocytic tumor appearing before the age of twenty one without designation of benign or malignant nor designated location .
excessive growth of the gingiva either by an increase in the size of the constituent cells  ( gingival hypertrophy )  or by an increase in their number  ( gingival hyperplasia )  .
a disorder involving inflammation of the gums ;  may affect surrounding and supporting structures of the teeth .
granulomatous inflammation of the testis .
neoplasms composed of primordial germ cells of embryonic gonads or of elements of the germ layers of the embryo ,  mammalian .
a morphologic variant of adenocarcinoma .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the kidney .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the liver parenchyma ,  bile ducts ,  and gallbladder .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the liver ,  bile ducts ,  and gallbladder .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving any part of the digestive system .
a non - invasive ,  papillary epithelial neoplasm that arises from the epithelium of the gallbladder .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the anal canal or anal margin .
a group of metabolic diseases due to deficiency of one of a number of liver enzymes in the biosynthetic pathway of heme .
a tumor usually arising in the synovium of joints ,  bursa or tendon sheath .
the mucinoses are a diverse group of disorders which have in common the deposition of basophilic ,  finely granular and stringy material  ( mucin )  in the connective tissues of the dermis  ( dermal mucinoses )  ,  in the pilosebaceous follicles  ( follicular mucinoses )  ,  or in the epidermis and tumors derived therefrom  ( epithelial mucinoses )  .
an inherited metabolic disorder caused by an enzyme deficiency ,  resulting in an inability to oxidize fatty acids for energy production .
a dome - shaped ,  rapidly growing skin lesion composed of well differentiated squamous cells .
a benign or malignant soft tissue neoplasm arising exclusively from the synovial membrane .
a carcinoma arising from the squamous cells of the epidermis .
a benign or malignant tumor involving the skin .
a neoplasm that is composed of squamous epithelial cells .
an adenoma characterized by the presence of papillary epithelial patterns .
a benign epithelial neoplasm that arises from the fallopian tube .
a benign epithelial neoplasm characterized by a papillary growth pattern ,  lack of significant cytologic atypia ,  and a wart - like appearance .
a benign papillary neoplastic growth on the skin composed of epithelial cells and a fibrous stalk .
an endophytic benign papillary epithelial neoplasm that results from the invagination and proliferation of epithelial cells in the underlying stroma .
an oligodendroglioma that arises from the central nervous system and occurs during childhood .
a oligodendroglioma that involves the spinal cord .
a neoplasm that arises from glial cells in the spinal cord .
an oligodendroglioma occurring during adulthood .
a oligodendroglioma that involves the brain .
a disease involving the spinal cord .
a benign ,  usually encapsulated slow growing tumor composed of schwann cells .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the perineural cells in the sheaths surrounding the nerves .
a morphologic variant of schwannoma characterized by hypercellularity ,  antoni a pattern ,  and the absence of well - formed verocay bodies .
a schwannoma that involves the hypoglossal nerve .
a neoplasm involving a hypoglossal nerve .
a neoplasm that affects the cerebellopontine angle .
a benign tumor derived from schwann cells of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system ,  including the sympathetic plexus .
a schwannoma that involves the trigeminal nerve .
the rarest histopathologic subtype of schwannoma .
a rare circumscribed ,  non - encapsulated and grossly pigmented nerve sheath tumor .
a schwannoma characterized by a plexiform or multinodular growth pattern .
a metabolic disorder caused by mutations in proteins critical for lysosomal function ,  including lysosomal enzymes ,  lysosomal integral membrane proteins ,  and proteins involved in the post - translational modification and trafficking of lysosomal proteins .
a broad group of disorders that affect the myelin sheaths that cover the neurons .
a somatostatin - producing neuroendocrine tumor that arises from the jejunum .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the wall of the jejunum .
an inflammatory process affecting the spinal cord .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the trachea .
narrowing of the lumen of the trachea .
abnormal distention of the stomach due to accumulation of gastric contents that may reach 10 to 15 liters .
a syndrome related to increased atmospheric pressure and characterized by tremors ,  nausea ,  dizziness ,  decreased motor and mental performance ,  and seizures .
a non - hodgkin or hodgkin lymphoma that arises in the brain or spinal cord as a primary lesion .
inflammation of the lungs due to the inhalation of solid or liquid material .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm of the prostate .
an embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a malignant mesenchymal tumor with skeletal muscle differentiation ,  arising from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a morphologic variant of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma arising from organs with a mucosal epithelial surface .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the orbit .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm with skeletal muscle differentiation that arises from the orbit .
an uncommon variant of rhabdomyosarcoma characterized by the presence of whorls of spindle cells forming a storiform pattern .
a leukemia that is in between acute and chronic leukemia and is characterized by a moderate duration or severity .
a benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by mucinous columnar epithelial cells .
breast fibrocystic change characterized by the presence of epithelial cell hyperplasia .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the thymus .
a thymoma that is confined within the capsule and may display benign or malignant morphologic characteristics .
a thymic epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of spindle and / or oval neoplastic epithelial cells .
a malignant thymoma that extends beyond the capsule and infiltrates the surrounding tissues .
an infection that is caused by an orthopoxvirus ,  which is transmitted by primates or rodents ,  and which is characterized by a prodromal syndrome of fever ,  chills ,  headache ,  myalgia ,  and lymphedema ;  initial symptoms are followed by a generalized papular rash that typically progresses from vesiculation through crusting over the course of two weeks .
the cutaneous and occasional systemic reactions associated with vaccination using smallpox  ( variola )  vaccine .
a bone tumor arising from the remnants of the fetal notochord .
a malignant germ cell tumor arising in the central nervous system .
a germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of an embryonal carcinoma component and a teratoma component .
a non - seminomatous germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of various tissues which correspond to the different germinal layers  ( endoderm ,  mesoderm ,  and ectoderm )  .
a disease involving the central nervous system .
a neoplasm with perivascular epithelioid cell differentiation often associated with tuberous sclerosis .
a benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the perivascular cells of the connective and soft tissues .
an angiomyolipoma arising from the liver .
an angiomyolipoma composed exclusively or predominantly by polygonal epithelioid cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm ,  often associated with cytologic atypia .
a small blood vessel hemorrhage into the skin and / or mucous membranes .
a localization - related  ( focal )  form of epilepsy characterized by seizures which arise in the frontal lobe .
a disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of excessively intense and superficial emotionality ,  attention seeking behavior ,  seductive appearance and speech ,  self dramatization and / or theatrical behavior .
inflammation of the bone .
a condition marked by the development of widespread xanthomas ,  yellow tumor - like structures filled with lipid deposits .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant neoplasm that arises from the mesenchyma - derived cells of the soft tissue or bone .
a high - grade malignant vascular neoplasm that arises from the bone .
a rare ,  high - grade pleomorphic malignant neoplasm arising from the bone .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the bone .
a non - disseminated osteosarcoma .
an osteosarcoma arising from the soft tissue .
a primary bone osteosarcoma affecting multiple bone sites .
an osteosarcoma occurring in childhood .
a rare aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the bone .
a small round cell bone tumor that lacks morphologic ,  immunohistochemical ,  and electron microscopic evidence of neuroectodermal differentiation .
a neoplasm involving a accessory xi nerve spinal component .
an osteosarcoma characterised by the presence of atypical cartilage of variable cellularity .
a usually aggressive malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the surface of the bone .
a usually aggressive malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the bone .
an osteosarcoma usually arising from the metaphysis of long bones .
a high grade malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm producing osteoid .
a bone osteosarcoma that has metastasized to skeletal or extraskeletal sites .
abnormal growth of the cells that comprise the cranial nerves .
a very rare malignant adipose tissue neoplasm that arises from the bone .
an inflammatory process of the gingival tissues and / or periodontal membrane of the teeth ,  resulting in an abnormally deep gingival sulcus ,  possibly producing periodontal pockets and loss of alveolar bone support .
a disease involving the accessory xi nerve .
a morphologic finding indicating tissue infiltration by non - neoplastic or neoplastic histiocytes .
a neoplasm involving a glossopharyngeal nerve .
a disease involving the glossopharyngeal nerve .
benign and malignant neoplasms which arise from or metastasize to the optic or second cranial nerve which extends from the optic disc of the eye and joins the optic chiasm .
a subclavian aneurysm is weakness or bulging in the wall of the subclavian artery ,  which is located below the collarbone .
a neoplasm involving a trochlear nerve .
pathological processes of the vestibular labyrinth which contains part of the balancing apparatus .
inflammation of the cerebrum .
acute inflammation of the larynx caused by viruses ,  including rhinovirus ,  influenza virus ,  parainfluenza virus ,  and adenovirus .
an acute or chronic ,  bacterial or viral inflammatory process affecting the larynx .
a malignant neoplasm in which there is infiltration of the skin overlying the breast by neoplastic large cells with abundant pale cytoplasm and large nuclei with prominent nucleoli  ( paget cells )  .
a mammary paget's disease that involves the scrotum .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the scrotum .
a slowly spreading ,  erythematous eczematoid plaque in the anal region .
an adenocarcinoma arising in the anal canal epithelium ,  including the mucosal surface ,  the anal glands ,  and the lining of fistulous tracts .
a premalignant condition morphologically characterised by the presence of the characteristic paget cells in the intraepithelial tissue of the penis .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the uterine corpus or the cervix .
a skin carcinoma that is characterized by infiltration of the skin by neoplastic large cells with abundant pale cytoplasm and large nuclei with prominent nucleoli .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the zone of skin
a disease involving the breast .
a malignant neoplasm involving the iris .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the choroid ,  ciliary body ,  or iris .
an eyelid disease that is characterized by exacerbations and remissions of eyelid edema ,  which results in a stretching and subsequent atrophy of the eyelid tissue ,  leading to the formation of redundant folds over the lid margins .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the uvea .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the extrahepatic bile duct
a rare pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma with poor prognosis .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the gallbladder .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the ampulla of vater .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the hepatopancreatic ampulla
an invasive breast adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells with signet ring appearance .
a morphologic variant of acinar adenocarcinoma of the prostate gland characterized by the presence of signet ring malignant cells .
a malignant tumor that arises from small cutaneous nerves ,  is locally aggressive ,  and has a potential for metastasis .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm composed of fibroblasts .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm composed of fibroblasts ,  and characterized by collagen production and usually a herringbone architectural pattern .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the deep soft tissues in children .
an ischemic condition of the brain ,  producing a persistent focal neurological deficit in the area of distribution of the cerebral arteries .
a transmissible spongiform encephalopathy  ( prion disease )  of deer and elk characterized by chronic weight loss leading to death .
a malignant neoplasm involving the choroid plexus
a neoplasm that involves a brain ventricle .
a choroid plexus neoplasm that occurs in an adult .
a choroid plexus papilloma characterized by increased mitotic activity .
a choroid plexus carcinoma that occurs during childhood .
superior mesenteric artery syndrome  ( smas )  is a digestive condition that occurs when the duodenum  ( the first part of the small intestine )  is compressed between two arteries  ( the aorta and the superior mesenteric artery )  .
blockage of the normal flow of stomach contents through the duodenum .
an epithelial or non - epithelial malignant neoplasm that arises from the liver .
formation or presence of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  in the cranial sinuses ,  large endothelium - lined venous channels situated within the skull .
formation or presence of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  in the lateral sinuses .
formation or presence of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  in the cavernous sinus of the brain .
formation or presence of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  in the superior sagittal sinus or the inferior sagittal sinus .
a sex cord - stromal tumor of the testis or the ovary .
a neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is composed of tissues that resemble dysgerminoma or seminoma and are admixed with sex cord tissues .
a testicular mixed germ cell - sex cord - stromal tumor .
an invasive cystic adenocarcinoma arising from the ovary .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of cystic structures .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the appendix ,  characterized by the presence of mucinous stroma formation and cystic structures .
an invasive breast adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of tall columnar neoplastic cells that contain intracytoplasmic mucin .
endometriosis that affects the cervix .
an invasive adenocarcinoma of the breast characterized by the presence of islands of small and uniform cells ,  surrounded by large amounts of mucin .
inflammation of the retina .
an uncommon lipoma characterized by prominent vascularity that invades the surrounding deep tissue .
an uncommon lipoma characterized by prominent vascularity that arises in the epidural space of the spinal canal .
a primary or metastatic neoplasm that involves the space between the vertebral periosteum and dura mater that surrounds the spinal cord .
a malignant neoplasm involving the central nervous system
primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the uterine corpus and / or the cervix .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the spinal cord during childhood .
a mature or immature teratoma that affects the central nervous system .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the conus medullaris .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that occurs in sella turcica .
ischemic or hemorrhagic necrosis of the pituitary gland .
benign and malignant neoplasms which arise from or metastasize to the olfactory or first cranial nerve .
a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by the abnormal growth and accumulation of mast cells in one or more organ systems .
a variant of cutaneous mastocytosis which occurs as a single lesion usually in infants .
a disease involving the olfactory nerve .
an aggressive malignant embryonal neoplasm usually occurring during childhood .
a rhabdoid tumor that arises from the kidney .
a kidney neoplasm that occurs during childhood .
a cancer that involves the cerebral hemisphere .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the lung parenchyma or the bronchi .
an anal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of mucoid stroma formation .
an anal adenocarcinoma arising from the anal canal mucosa .
a carcinoma with glandular differentiation arising from the ampulla of vater .
a acute transudative otitis media which involves bloody effusion .
acute form of non - suppurative otitis media .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a rare mucinous adenocarcinoma that arises from the uterine ligament .
a rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the uterine ligament .
a usually well to moderately differentiated cervical adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells that contain significant amount of intracytoplasmic mucin .
an extremely rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the fallopian tube .
a rare borderline or malignant epithelial tumor of the fallopian tube characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that contain intracytoplasmic mucin and may resemble the epithelial cells of the endocervix or gastrointestinal tract .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the fallopian tube
a primary ,  usually low grade adenocarcinoma of the endometrium in which the majority of the malignant epithelial cells contain abundant intracytoplasmic mucin .
an invasive adenocarcinoma of the rectum characterized by the presence of pools of extracellular mucin .
a neuroblastoma arising from an anatomic site other than the brain .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the urinary bladder
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary .
a plasma cell neoplasm arising at an extraosseous site .
a localized ,  clonal  ( malignant )  plasma cell infiltrate in the bone ,  without peripheral blood involvement .
a solitary plasmacytoma that arises from the chest wall .
a acute sanguinous otitis media caused by an allergen .
a highly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the vulva .
a verrucous carcinoma that involves the urinary bladder .
a squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder arising from metaplastic epithelium .
a highly differentiated variant of cervical squamous cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of a warty surface and stromal invasion with pushing borders .
a rare variant of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma .
a verrucous carcinoma that involves the urethra .
a well differentiated ,  moderately differentiated ,  or poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the male or female urethra .
a verrucous carcinoma that involves the plantar part of pes .
a well differentaited ,  non - metastasizing squamous cell carcinoma arising from the larynx .
a rare thrombophilia disorder characterized by deficiency of protein c . it results in venous thromboembolism .
a rare condition characterized by the unequivocal presence of both testicular and ovarian tissues in an individual .
whitish or yellowish mucosal vaginal discharge .
normal or abnormal secretions from the vagina .
chronic progressive interstitial lung disorder characterized by the replacement of the lung tissue by connective tissue ,  leading to progressive dyspnea ,  respiratory failure ,  or right heart failure .
a meningioma that affects the ventricles of the brain .
the absence of ovulation .
a disease involving the external ear .
a meningioma that arises in the epidural spinal canal space .
an extraskeletal chondroma usually arising from the dura .
paralysis of the glossopharyngeal nerve .
injury to any of the cranial nerves or their nuclei in the brain resulting in muscle weakness .
hemorrhagic necrosis that was first demonstrated in rabbits with a two - step reaction ,  an initial local  ( intradermal )  or general  ( intravenous )  injection of a priming endotoxin  ( endotoxins )  followed by a second intravenous endotoxin injection  ( provoking agent )  24 h later .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the skull base .
a cancer involving a diencephalon .
a craniopharyngioma consisting of broad strands ,  cords and bridges of a multistratified squamous epithelium with peripheral palisading of nuclei .
a craniopharyngioma composed of sheets of squamous epithelium which separate to form pseudopapillae .
a term that refers to vascular neoplasms with a prominent hemangiopericytic growth pattern .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the seminal vesicle .
a medulloblastoma composed of large cells with prominent nucleoli and a larger amount of cytoplasm in contrast with the cells of the classic medulloblastoma .
a medulloblastoma arising from the vermis of the cerebellum .
a medulloblastoma arising from the brain ,  occurring in adults .
a central nervous system embryonal tumor ,  not otherwise specified that occurs in adults .
a rare malignant embryonal neoplasm characterized by the presence of small cells which resemble the cells of classic medulloblastoma and a minor population of melanin - forming neuroepithelial cells .
a medulloblastoma occurring in children .
a central nervous system embryonal tumor ,  not otherwise specified that occurs in childhood .
a medulloblastoma characterized by nodularity and neuronal differentiation .
inflammation of the veins associated with the presence of a thrombus .
functional obstruction of the colon leading to megacolon in the absence of obvious colonic diseases or mechanical obstruction .
chronic or recurrent colonic disorders without an identifiable structural or biochemical explanation .
intestinal pseudo - obstruction is a digestive disorder in whichthe intestinal walls are unable to contract normally  ( called hypomotility )  ;  the conditionresembles a true obstruction ,  but no actual blockage exists .
a benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the apocrine sweat glands .
a benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the sweat glands .
a lung carcinoma arising from the bronchial epithelium .
tumors or cancer of the bronchi .
a benign ,  non - metastasizing cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas .
a non - metastasizing cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas .
a benign or malignant epithelial neoplasm that is usually cystic and arises from the exocrine pancreas .
a malignant neoplasm involving the main bronchus .
inflammation of the anatomical structures of the inner ear secondary to an infectious process .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from adipocytes .
a carcinoma involving a adrenal gland .
the sudden onset of inflammation of heart muscle with myocellular necrosis ;  this is generally secondary to an infectious cause ,  and patients often have a recent history of a flu - like illness .
a disease involving the adrenal cortex .
a malignant neoplasm involving the adrenal gland
a malignant epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of a trabecular glandular architectural pattern .
a cardiomyopathy that is not due to abnormalities in heart muscle cells .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the bartholin gland and is characterized by the presence of malignant urothelial - type epithelial cells .
a carcinoma that arises from the bartholin gland .
a squamous cell carcinoma of the sinonasal tract characterized by a plexiform or ribbon - like growth pattern ,  cytological atypia ,  and lack of histological evidence of keratinization .
a rare primary carcinoma of the endometrium characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells resembling urothelial transitional cells .
a rare transitional cell carcinoma that arises from the fallopian tube .
an urothelial carcinoma that arises from the urothelial lining of the prostatic ducts or the prostatic urethra .
a transitional cell carcinoma that arises from the male or female urethra .
a poorly differentiated transitional cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant cells with spindle cell morphologic features .
a cancer - related condition in which the gastric wall becomes thickened and rubbery  ( leather - bottle stomach )  .
an eosinophilic gastroenteritis that is characterized by inflammation of the stomach .
gastritis resulting from bacteria .
gastritis resulting from fungi .
a variant of phlegmonous gastritis ,  typically progressing to gastric gangrene .
gastritis that is associated with the presence of granulomas .
a malignant neoplasm arising from skeletal muscle .
a benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from skeletal muscle .
a malignant mesenchymal tumor with skeletal muscle differentiation affecting the liver .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm with skeletal muscle differentiation affecting the central nervous system .
a malignant mesenchymal tumor with skeletal muscle differentiation affecting the mediastinum .
a rare sarcoma that arises from the mediastinum .
a malignant mesenchymal tumor with skeletal muscle differentiation affecting the rectum .
a rare malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the prostate gland .
an aggressive malignant mesenchymal neoplasm of the nervous system or soft tissues .
a rhabdomyosarcoma that is located in the gallbladder .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the gallbladder .
a malignant mesenchymal tumor with skeletal muscle differentiation affecting the ovaries .
a malignant mesenchymal tumor with skeletal muscle differentiation affecting the breast .
a malignant mesenchymal tumor with skeletal muscle differentiation affecting the testis .
a sarcoma that arises from the testis .
a sarcoma that involves the bile duct .
a rhabdomyosarcoma composed of embryonic and alveolar components .
a malignant mesenchymal tumor with skeletal muscle differentiation affecting the anus .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm arising from the anus .
pathological conditions in the duodenum region of the small intestine  ( intestine ,  small )  .
a cystic adenocarcinoma that arises from the pancreas .
a mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts and it is associated with an invasive carcinomatous component .
a disease involving the cardial valve .
the backflow of blood from the right ventricle into the right atrium ,  owning to imperfect functioning / insufficiency of the tricuspid valve .
a tumor that arises from the testis and is composed of neoplastic trophoblastic cells .
a gestational or non - gestational neoplasm composed of neoplastic trophoblastic cells .
a germ cell tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of one histologic component .
infestations by parasites which live on ,  or burrow into ,  the surface of their host's epidermis .
a rare malignant mixed epithelial and mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the cervix and is characterized by the presence of malignant mesenchymal elements and benign epithelial elements .
a mixed epithelial and mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the cervix and is characterized by the presence of malignant mesenchymal elements and benign or malignant epithelial elements .
a primary polypoid malignant neoplasm of the uterine corpus characterized by the presence of a sarcomatous mesenchymal component and a benign epithelial component .
a primary malignant neoplasm of the uterine corpus characterized by the presence of an epithelial and a mesenchymal component .
a biphasic neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of mullerian - type epithelial tissue in a mesenchymal sarcomatous stroma .
a malignant mixed epithelial and mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the vagina and is characterized by the presence of a malignant mesenchymal component and a benign or atypical mullerian - type epithelial component .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the colon .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the small or large intestine .
a disease involving the nail .
a chronic bacterial infection of major folds of the skin ,  caused by corynebacterium minutissimum .
a disease involving the common bile duct .
a disease involving the bile duct .
a meningioma that affects the intraorbital structures .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the orbit .
a slow - growing malignant bone tumor arising from the remnants of the notochord and occurring in the base of the skull .
a slow - growing malignant bone tumor arising from the remnants of the notochord and occurring in the spine .
the subclinical or symptomatic stage of syphilis ,  occurring at an average of three weeks after contact with an infected individual .
the secondary stage of syphilis typically that is characterized by generalized rash  ( including palms and soles )  ,  mucocutaneous lesions ,  and lymphadenopathy .
a malignant neoplasm involving the zone of skin
a neuroblastoma in which the differentiating neuroblasts constitute more than five - percent of the tumor cells .
a neuroblastoma arising from the cerebral hemispheres .
a disorder characterized by the failure to use developmentally expected speech sounds that are appropriate for the individual's age  ( i .e . ,  the individual makes errors in sound production or use or omits sounds such as final consonants )  .
a symptom of neurologic or psychiatric dysfunction in which the individual involuntarily and meaninglessly repeats a recently heard word ,  series of words ,  or a song .
the inability to generate oral - verbal expression ,  despite normal comprehension of speech .
formation or presence of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  in a blood vessel within the skull .
a metabolic disorder characterized by abnormal blood glucose levels .
abnormally high level of glucose in the blood .
disease involving the common peroneal nerve or its branches ,  the deep and superficial peroneal nerves .
a neuroglial tumor that arises from the brain stem .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the brain stem .
a benign or malignant  ( primary or metastatic )  tumor involving the cerebellum .
a neoplasm that affects the brain stem and occurs during childhood .
a neoplasm that affects the infratentorial region of the brain and occurs during childhood .
a morphologic variant of meningioma arising from the brain stem .
a disease that involves the pilosebaceous unit .
a who grade ii morphologic variant of meningioma characterized by the presence of clear glycogen - rich polygonal cells .
a meningioma that affects the posterior cranial fossa .
a malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of an invasive malignant transitional cell component and nests of benign transitional cells in a fibrotic stroma .
a group of rare genetic muscle disorders characterized by hypotonia ,  muscle weakness ,  and delayed development of motor skills .
any skin disease that is pyegenic .
a uterine corpus sarcoma originating from the endometrial stroma .
a malignant neoplasm arising from smooth muscle .
a rare malignant neoplasm with melanocytic differentiation characterized by the presence of polygonal or spindle shaped clear cells .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm composed of spindle - shaped cells .
a malignant tumor composed of a mixture of carcinomatous and sarcomatous elements .
a sarcoma involving a kidney .
abnormally high bone density .
a morphologic variant of angioleiomyoma characterized by the adherence of neoplastic smooth muscle cells to the walls of vascular channels .
a basal cell carcinoma of the penis with an indolent clinical course .
a scrotal carcinoma that involves the basal cell .
a basal cell carcinoma of the skin that often appears as elevated nodules which may become ulcerated .
a skin carcinoma displaying cytological characteristics intermediate to nodular basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma .
a basal cell carcinoma that contains large amounts of melanin .
a basal cell carcinoma arising from the perianal skin .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the perianal skin
a basal cell carcinoma that arises from the skin of the external ear .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the external ear
a basal cell carcinoma of the skin characterized by the presence of small nodules that permeate the dermis .
a congenital or acquired occlusion of an opening in any part of the female genital tract .
a variant of basal cell carcinoma presenting as an elevated or erythematous nodular lesion usually in the back .
a histologic variant of basal cell carcinoma of the skin characterized by the presence of strands and nests of malignant cells that are embedded in a dense fibrotic stroma .
a morphologic variant of basal cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of clear cells .
a variant of basal cell carcinoma morphologically characterized by the presence of thin strands of basaloid cells forming a reticulate pattern .
a variant of basal cell carcinoma presenting as a pale ,  indurated plaque ,  usually in the upper trunk or face .
a superficial basal cell carcinoma of the skin characterized by the presence of lobules of basaloid cells which are separated by large distances and represent multifocal discrete tumors .
a slow growing ,  locally infiltrating carcinoma that arises from the vulva .
disease involving a spinal nerve root  ( see spinal nerve roots )  which may result from compression related to intervertebral disk displacement ;  spinal cord injuries ;  spinal diseases ;  and other conditions .
a radiculopathy that is present in more than one nerve .
a benign epithelial verrucous lesion of the skin .
a benign epithelial neoplasm of the skin .
a cyst  ( cysts )  near the ovary ,  derived from anomalies of the fallopian tubes or the broad ligament .
a prolymphocytic leukemia that involves the spleen .
dermatophytosis involving the stratum corneum of the skin of the scalp and beard area .
a cystic lesion containing lymph .
a malignant neoplasm involving the ciliary body .
a disease involving the ciliary body .
a melanoma characterized by the complete absence of melanin pigment in the melanoma cells .
a malignant neoplasm involving the posterior mediastinum .
a melanoma characterized by the presence of malignant large epithelioid melanocytes .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the cervix .
a melanoma that arises usually from the breast skin and less often from the breast glandular tissue .
a pathological condition characterized by the presence of a number of gastric diverticula in the stomach .
a disorder characterized by the degeneration of the nervous system due to autoimmunity .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises in the orbit .
a well differentiated squamous cell carcinoma characterized by a papillary ,  exophytic growth pattern and hyperkeratosis .
a small round cell tumor with neural differentiation arising from the bone .
a small round cell tumor with neural differentiation arising from the soft tissues .
a rare cutaneous lesion composed of eosinophilic histiocytes ,  which are often multinucleated .
a chronic inflammatory skin condition characterized by itchiness and a rash in the chest and abdominal areas .
an aggressive malignant tumor of melanocytic origin that arises from the cervix .
a benign neoplasm composed of fibroblastic spindle cells in a whorled storiform pattern .
a rare ,  well - circumscribed ,  pseudo - encapsulated benign fibrous histiocytoma that arises entirely within the subcutaneous tissue or deep soft tissue .
a carcinoma arising from the ovary .
a neuroendocrine tumor arising from the delta cells of the pancreas .
a usually malignant neuroendocrine tumor arising from the delta cells of the pancreas .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the small intestine .
a meningioma that affects the cavernous sinus .
a meningioma that affects the anterior cranial fossa .
a meningioma that arises from the skull base .
a malignant germ cell tumor arising from the central nervous system .
a unique group of rare tumors of the central nervous system that affect mainly children and adolescents .
a radiosensitive malignant germ cell tumor found in the testis  ( especially undescended )  ,  and extragonadal sites  ( anterior mediastinum and pineal gland )  .
a malignant germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of a monotonous primitive germ cell population .
an alveolar soft part sarcoma arising from the cervix .
loss of vision in the central portion of the retina  ( macula )  ,  secondary to retinal degeneration .
accumulation of intraretinal fluid and protein in the macula ,  which may result in swelling and decreased central vision .
a renal cell carcinoma that occurs during childhood .
an instance of renal cell carcinoma  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
overproduction of aldosterone by the adrenal glands ,  which may lead to hypokalemia and / or hypernatremia .
a rare type of renal cell carcinoma .
a low grade carcinoma of the kidney characterized by the presence of tubules which are separated by mucinous stroma .
a high grade carcinoma of the kidney .
an inflammation of the mucous membrane lining the nose ,  usually associated with nasal discharge .
a malignant form of malignant biphasic mesothelioma .
a malignant form of peritoneal solitary fibrous tumor .
any disorder caused by an insufficient amount or availability of potassium ,  which generally manifests with myalgia ,  tetany ,  hypotension ,  polyuria ,  and polydipsia .
a malignant vascular neoplasm arising from the brain ,  spinal cord or meninges .
an angiosarcoma occurring in childhood .
a malignant vascular neoplasm arising from the aorta .
a malignant vascular neoplasm arising from the breast .
an angiosarcoma characterized by the presence of malignant spindle endothelial cells .
an angiosarcoma that is located in the gallbladder .
a usually aggressive malignant vascular tumor primarily involving the thyroid gland .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm primarily involving the thyroid gland .
a malignant vascular neoplasm arising from the skin .
a rare sarcoma that arises from the cervix .
a category of rare neoplasms that arise from the cervix .
a malignant vascular neoplasm arising from the superior vena cava .
a malignant vascular neoplasm arising from the prostate .
a malignant vascular neoplasm arising from the mediastinum .
a malignant vascular neoplasm arising from the ovary .
a carcinoma morphologically characterized the presence of cuboidal mucous cells ,  goblet - like mucous cells ,  squamoid cells ,  cystic changes ,  and a fibrotic stromal formation .
a congenital condition ,  usually due to genetic aberrations ,  that is characterized by a lack of hair growth on the head and / or body .
loss or impairment of the ability to write  ( letters ,  syllables ,  words ,  or phrases )  due to an injury to a specific cerebral area or occasionally due to emotional factors .
impaired ability to retrieve words ;  in particular ,  an inability to recall the names of objects and people .
the loss of access to memories that were previously encoded ;  this disorder is most commonly preceded by trauma ,  including physical brain injury ,  stroke ,  or seizure ,  but may also be psychogenic in origin .
a mesenchymal chondrosarcoma occurring in children .
a mesenchymal chondrosarcoma occurring in adults .
a rare malignant tumor of soft tissue characterized by a bimorphic pattern composed of undifferentiated small round cells and islands of well differentiated hyaline cartilage .
a chondrosarcoma that is located in exclusively soft tissue .
tumors or cancer of the anal gland .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the anal canal or anal margin .
an aggressive ,  non - small cell ,  poorly differentiated thymic neuroendocrine carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of a high mitotic rate and ,  almost always ,  necrosis .
a carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of large malignant cells exhibiting neuroendocrine differentiation .
a poorly differentiated non - small cell lung carcinoma composed of large polygonal cells without evidence of glandular or squamous differentiation .
chronic endometritis characterized by the presence of plasmacytic infiltrates in the endometrium .
chronic inflammation of the endometrium characterized by the presence of epithelioid granulomas .
a meningioma that affects the choroid plexus .
a grade i ,  slowly growing meningioma .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of epithelial differentiation and numerous intracellular pas positive bodies that are rich in glycogen .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of prominent chronic inflammatory infiltrates that predominate over the meningioma cells .
a meningioma that occurs during childhood .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of intercellular microcystic spaces that contain mucinous fluid .
a malignant neoplasm involving the bile duct
a malignant neoplasm involving the biliary tree
a benign mesenchymal neoplasm arising from smooth ,  skeletal ,  or cardiac muscle tissue .
a benign neoplasm that involves the intestine .
a benign papillary neoplasm composed of transitional cells and characterized by an endophytic growth pattern .
a benign neoplasm that arises from the ciliated respiratory mucosa that lines the nasal cavity .
inflammation of the submandibular lymph nodes .
inflammation of the cervical lymph nodes .
inflammation of the postauricular lymph nodes .
a form of lymphadenitis that is characterized by formation of pus ;  it is most often caused by staphylococcal or streptococcal bacteria .
an infection of the lymph nodes in the axilla .
a malignant neoplasm involving the retina .
trilateral retinoblastoma refers to bilateral  ( or less often unilateral )  retinoblastoma associated with an intracranial primitive neuroectodermal tumor in the pineal or suprasellar region .
retinoblastoma involving both eyes .this occurs in the majority of patients with the inherited variant .
a retinoblastoma that only involves a single eye .
retinoblastoma restricted to local involvement .
retinoblastoma that has spread beyond the eye e .g .
a localized tumor composed of sheets of mast cells without atypia .
a disorder of the thalamus .
a rare slow growing benign tumor of aberrant and ectatic venous connections .
neuropathy resulting from uremia .
a corneal disease that is characterized by inflammation of the cornea .
a rare primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of squamous cells ,  intermediate type cells ,  and mucus - producing cells .
a carcinoma of the breast characterized by pools of mucin and islands of malignant squamous cells .
a hemangioma arising from skeletal muscle .
a mucoepidermoid carcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the extrahepatic bile duct .
a mucoepidermoid carcinoma that involves the zone of skin .
an extremely rare carcinoma that arises from the lacrimal gland .
a rare carcinoma of the esophagus which contains squamous cells ,  mucus secreting cells ,  and cells of an intermediate type .
a rare mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the larynx .
a hemangioma arising from the deep soft tissues .
a neurogenic tumor that arises from the mediastinum .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the nerve plexus .
benign and malignant neoplasms arising from one or more of the cervical ,  thoracic ,  lumbar ,  sacral ,  or coccygeal nerve roots .
a malignant neoplasm involving the epicardium .
a disease involving the prostate gland .
malignant neoplasms which arise or occur within the intracranial cavity below the tentorium cerebelli .
a meningioma that affects the foramen magnum .
a hemangioma arising from the skin .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the stomach .
a malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the stomach .
a malignant germ cell tumor that develops as a primary tumor in an anatomic site other than the testis or ovary .
a hemangioma arising from the subglottic area .
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by the presence of physical symptoms that suggest a medical condition but are not fully explained by any known medical reasons .
an uncommon usually benign neoplasm that arises from the testis .
a malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of more than one histologic component .
a meningioma that affects the middle cranial fossa .
a progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by a disruption in the connection between the striatum and the substantia nigra .
a sex cord - stromal tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of cells that resemble the successive stages of development of leydig cells .
a benign or malignant tumor that arises from the testis .
a capillary or cavernous hemangioma arising from the breast .
a pulmonary blastoma composed of a mixture of irregular tubular structures and mesenchymal elements .
a non - encapsulated ,  well defined pulmonary blastoma ,  composed of irregular tubular structures .
a solid ,  unencapsulated tumor of the kidney composed of spindle mesenchymal cells that resemble fibroblasts or muscle cells .
inflammation of the glomeruli with infiltration by polymorphonuclear leukocytes .
a constellation of renal disorders characterized by an increase number of cells in the glomerulus ;  these disorders generally present with nephrotic syndrome ,  and generally progress to end stage renal failure over a matter of weeks to years ,  depending on the etiology .
inflammation of a specific segment of glomeruli ,  which is associated with subacute bacterial endocarditis ,  and frequently produces microscopic hematuria without azotemia .
inflammation of the glomeruli secondary to presence of autoantibodies directed at specific antigenic targets within the glomerular basement membrane ,  causing hematuria ,  proteinuria ,  and impaired renal function .
inflammation of the glomeruli ,  in which all glomeruli are affected ,  resulting in renal failure .
a term that refers to glomerular damage resulting in hematuria ,  proteinuria ,  and azotemia .
mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis  ( mpgn )  is a condition that affects the kidneys .
inflammation of the glomeruli characterized by the accumulation of antibody - antigen immune complexes ,  resulting in glomerular damage and impaired kidney function .
a central nervous system embryonal tumor ,  not otherwise specified arising from the cerebellopontine angle of the infratentorial brain .
a primitive neuroectodermal tumor that involves the brain .
a vascular lesion in the papillary dermis resulting from ectasia of pre - existing vessels .
a rare ,  usually aggressive malignant embryonal neoplasm of the central nervous system occurring in children .
a central nervous system embryonal tumor ,  not otherwise specified arising from the supratentorial region .
disorder characterized by nausea ,  vomiting ,  and dizziness ,  possibly in response to vestibular disorientation or fluid shifts associated with space flight .
a disease involving the male reproductive system .
a brain stem glioma that occurs in an adult .
a hemangioma arising from the peripheral nerves .
a hemangioma characterized by the presence of cavernous vascular spaces .
syndromes of bone destruction where the cause is not obvious such as neoplasia ,  infection ,  or trauma .
an infiltrating malignant tumor characterized by the presence of atypical cells with myoepithelial differentiation .
pathological processes involving the integrity of blood circulation .
an adenocarcinoma with sebaceous differentiation .
a neoplasm involving a cauda equina .
benign and malignant neoplasms of the cerebellum that arise from astrocytes .
a who grade 1 astrocytoma which arises in the cerebellum .
a astrocytoma that involves the diencephalon .
an astrocytic tumor affecting young people .
a astrocytoma that involves the pineal body .
an astrocytoma that arises from the brain stem .
a low or high grade astrocytoma that arises in the spinal cord .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma arising from the salivary gland .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma that arises from the prostate gland .
a adenoid cystic carcinoma that involves the skin of body .
a rare usually indolent lung carcinoma characterized by a cribiform and tubular pattern and the presence of glandular epithelial cells .
anterior horn disease is one of a number of medical disorders affecting the anterior horn of the spinal cord .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the trachea .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma primarily involving the breast .
an infrequent esophageal carcinoma arising from esophageal glands .
a carcinoma that arises from the bartholin gland and is characterized by the presence of islands of uniform malignant cells forming cribriform patterns .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the middle ear
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the middle ear
an exceptionally rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the rete ovarii .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the rete ovarii which is located in the ovarian hilus .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the bile duct
a hemangioma that involves the lung .
a rare ,  serous adenocarcinoma that arises from the lining of the peritoneum .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the vermiform appendix
an adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells with granular cytoplasm .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the small intestine .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the anus
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the urethra
an adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a villous architectural pattern .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the renal pelvis
a hemangioma that is not present at birth but develops later in life .
a rare ,  low grade invasive adenocarcinoma of the breast characterized by the presence of cells that secrete milk - like material .
a rare primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of carcinoma cells with glandular differentiation .
a carcinoma that arises from the intrahepatic bile duct epithelium in any site of the intrahepatic biliary tree .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the nasal cavity
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the nasal cavity
a carcinoma with apocrine differentiation arising from the sweat glands .
a malignant neoplasm involving the apocrine sweat gland .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the ureter
a lesion in which the normally situated glands are partially or completely replaced by atypical cells with malignant characteristics .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the esophagogastric junction .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the gall bladder
a primary tumor of the central nervous system that arises from leptomeningeal melanocytes .
a solitary fibrous tumor / hemangiopericytoma that arises from the meninges .
any disease of the bone marrow .
impaired ability to recognize other human faces in the absence of a vision disorder .
a poliomyelitis that does not exhibit paralysis .
acute or chronic inflammation of the pancreas due to excessive alcohol drinking .
a relatively common disorder characterized by a fairly specific pattern of tremors which are most prominent in the upper extremities and neck ,  inducing titubations of the head .
a astrocytoma  ( excluding glioblastoma )  that involves the cranial nerve ii .
a glioma that affects the optic nerve .
an adenomyoma characterized by the presence of marked glandular architectural complexity .
a usually polypoid ,  benign neoplasm that arises from the uterine corpus .
a rare ,  benign ,  usually polypoid neoplasm that arises from the cervix .
a disease involving the thyroid gland .
a hemangioma arising from the brain and spinal cord .
a morphologic variant of hepatocellular carcinoma characterized by the presence of clear cells .
a benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm originating in the central nervous system or the meninges and showing fibrous ,  fibrohistiocytic ,  adipose ,  myoid ,  endothelial ,  chondroid or osseous ,  but not meningothelial differentiation .
a hepatocellular carcinoma that develops following exposure to aflatoxin .
an uncommon type of hepatocelluar carcinoma ,  morphologically characterized by significant fibrosis around the sinusoid - like spaces and atrophy of the tumor trabeculae .
a pineal parenchymal cell neoplasm  ( pineocytoma or pineoblastoma )  occurring in adults .
abnormal malignant growth of the cells that comprise the pineal parenchyma .
a granular cell tumor that is confined to the site of origin ,  without metastatic potential .
a tumor that usually presents with small nodules or small sessile polyps ,  predominantly in the distal esophagus .
an uncommon granular cell tumor which may metastasize to other anatomic sites .
a usually benign granular cell tumor that arises from the vulva .
a very rare granular cell tumor that arises from the heart .
an exceptionally rare ,  generally benign ,  granular cell tumor that arises from the mediastinum .
a generally benign intrasellar and / or suprasellar mass arising from the neurohypophysis or infundibulum .
a low - grade neoplasm that arises from the neurohypophysis .
a hemangioma characterized by the presence of hobnail endothelial cells .
a cerebellar neoplasm that occurs in an adult .
a papillary meningioma that affects the cerebellum .
a who grade iii meningioma characterized by the predominant presence of rhabdoid cells forming sheets .
a neoplasm that affects the cerebellum and occurs during childhood .
a basal cell carcinoma which displays squamous differentiation .
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by emotional or behavioral symptoms that develop within 3 months of a stressor and do not persist for more than an additional 6 months after the stressor is no longer present .
a group of neoplasms which arise from the ependymal lining of the cerebral ventricles and from the remnants of the central canal of the spinal cord .
a tumor composed of two or more glial cell types  ( astrocytes ,  ependymal cells ,  and oligodendrocytes )  .
a malignant neoplasm involving the sternum
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the tissues of the thorax .
a malignant neoplasm involving the middle ear
a disease involving the middle ear .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the ear .
a malignant neoplasm involving the internal ear .
ischemic necrosis of the testis usually caused by torsion of the spermatic cord ,  trauma ,  or severe epididymo - orchitis .
congenital locomotor ataxia of lambs ,  thought to be associated with copper deficiency .
a teratoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of cystic structures .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the epididymis .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the mediastium .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the fallopian tube .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from an extrahepatic bile duct .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the central nervous system .
a morphologic variant of leiomyoma characterized by the presence of pleomorphic muscle cells with bizarre hyperchromatic nuclei and eosinophilic cytoplasm .
a rare benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from deep tissue .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the arrector pili muscle ,  tunica media of blood vessels ,  and dartos muscle of the genitalia .
a well - circumscribed benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the anus .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the lung .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the pericardium .
a condition characterized by the presence of numerous small benign smooth muscle neoplasms located throughout the body .
a morphologic variant of classic leiomyoma characterized by a dense cellular infiltrate composed of spindle or round cells with scant cytoplasm and a less obvious interlacing fascicle pattern .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the gallbladder .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the vulva .
a well - circumscribed benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the colorectal area .
a well - circumscribed benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the appendix .
a cutaneous leiomyoma arising from the dartos muscle of the scrotum or labia majora .
a rare neurofibroma with epithelioid morphology .
a non - metastasizing encapsulated neoplasm arising from nerves in the gallbladder .
an elongated and multinodular neurofibroma ,  formed when the tumor involves either multiple trunks of a plexus or multiple fascicles of a large nerve ,  such as the sciatic .
a neurofibroma characterized by the presence of areas with increased cellularity .
a neurofibroma characterized by the presence of cellular pleomorphism .
a neoplasm that arises from the mesothelial cells of the pleura .
a type of arteriosclerosis in which calcification of the tunica media is the predominant feature .
neoplasms of the endometrial stroma that sometimes involve the myometrium .
a category of rare neoplasms that arise from the ovary .
a rare sarcoma that arises from the vagina .
a category of rare neoplasms that arise from the vagina .
a carcinoma in situ involving a endometrium .
wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the absence of nuclear anaplasia .
wilms tumor arising in the remaining kidney following treatment of the original wilms tumor .
wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the presence of blastema ,  epithelial ,  and mesenchymal components  ( triphasic pattern )  or a combination of two of them  ( biphasic pattern )  .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the scrotum .
wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the blastema component .
familial embryonal neoplasm derived from nephrogenic blastemal cells .
wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the epithelial component .
a ganglioneuroblastoma characterized by the presence of neuroblastic cells in a schwannian stroma ,  and the formation of hemorrhagic neuroblastic nodules .
a ganglioneuroblastoma characterized by the presence of neuroblastic cells in a schwannian stroma ,  without the presence of hemorrhagic neuroblastic nodules .
a ganglioneuroblastoma arising from the peripheral nervous system .
a benign neoplasm that arises from the fallopian tube and originates from mesothelial cells .
blockage in any part of the ureter causing obstruction of urine flow from the kidney to the urinary bladder .
blockage of the normal flow of contents of the urinary tract .
a teratoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of tissues derived exclusively from one embryonic germ cell layer .
an ovarian mature teratoma characterized by the presence of aberrant thyroid tissue with morphologic changes identical to thyroid carcinoma .
a mature monodermal teratoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of benign ,  thyroid - type tissues .
polyneuropathy that is characterized by demyelination of axons .
polyneuropathy that is persistent or long - standing in nature .
a fulminant and often fatal demyelinating disease of the brain which primarily affects young adults and children .
acute encephalitis that is characterized by bleeding .
a very rare morphologic variant of glomus tumor with a size greater than 2 cm .
a glomus tumor arising in the finger and usually associated with pain .
a benign mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the perivascular cells of the connective and soft tissues .
a hemangioblastoma that arises from the retina .
a cholangiocarcinoma that arises from the junction ,  or adjacent to the junction ,  of the right and left hepatic ducts .
vasculitis affecting the blood vessels of the brain and / or spinal cord .
a morphologic variant of leiomyosarcoma characterized by the presence of an inflammatory infiltrate admixed with malignant spindle cells .
an uncommon ,  aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the central nervous system .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm that arises from the colon .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the colon .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the heart .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the heart .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the ovary .
a morphologic variant of leiomyosarcoma characterized by the presence of epithelioid round cells with eosinophilic to clear cytoplasm .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the lung .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the anus .
a morphologic variant of leiomyosarcoma characterized by the presence of cellular pleomorphism ,  malignant cells with large nuclei ,  and a myxoid stroma .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the small intestine .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the small intestine .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the skin .
a malignant neoplasm involving the dermis .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the gallbladder .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the esophagus .
accumulation of watery fluid in the cavity of a joint .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the stomach .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the prostate .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the vagina .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the retroperitoneum .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the breast .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the vulva .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the kidney .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the larynx .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the mediastinum .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from an extrahepatic bile duct .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the liver .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm that arises from the rectum .
a disease involving the pituitary gland .
a disease involving the eyelid .
a rare adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube composed of malignant glandular epithelium containing clear cells .
a clear cell adenocarcinoma of the uterine ligament composed mainly of clear or hobnob cells .
a rare morphologic variant of bladder adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells and clear cells distributed in a tubulo - cystic ,  papillary ,  or diffuse pattern .
a morphologic variant of urethral adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of tubulocystic or papillary structures lined with clear cuboidal or hobnail cells .
a carcinoma with glandular differentiation arising from the ampulla of vater .
a malignant neoplasm which occurs mostly in the major salivary glands  ( most frequently in the parotid gland )  ,  but also in the minor salivary glands of the oral mucosa and the tracheobronchial tree .
an uncommon ,  usually aggressive adenocarcinoma of the breast characterized by the presence of clear cells that contain glycogen .
an alveolar soft part sarcoma arising from the vulva .
a rare germ cell tumor that affects the fallopian tube .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the thymus .
a disease involving the dental pulp .
a rare sex cord - stromal tumor that arises from the testis .
a non - neoplastic nodular lesion that arises from the gingiva .
abnormal enlargement or overgrowth of the gingivae brought about by enlargement of existing cells .
loss of the ability to form new memories beyond a certain point in time .
a yolk sac tumor that involves the pineal body .
a yolk sac tumor that occurs during childhood .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the central nervous system and occurs during childhood .
a non - seminomatous malignant germ cell tumor arising from the testis .
a classification of testicular cancers that arise in specialized sex cells called germ cells .
a yolk sac tumor that occurs in an adult .
a germ cell tumor of the central nervous system occurring in adults .
abnormal sleep - wake schedule or pattern associated with the circadian rhythm which affect the length ,  timing ,  and / or rigidity of the sleep - wake cycle relative to the day - night cycle .
a malignant tumor that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant germ cell components but lacks a teratoma component .
pathological processes in the colon region of the large intestine  ( intestine ,  large )  .
a cervical adenocarcinoma that arises from mesonephric remnants .
a hemangiopericytoma arising from the breast .
a benign or malignant hemangiopericytoma arising from the retroperitoneum .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the hair follicle .
a very rare ,  locally aggressive ,  malignant neoplasm of the hair follicle .
a rare ,  benign neoplasm that arises from the bartholin gland and is characterized by the presence of clustered glands and tubules lined by mucin - secreting epithelial cells .
an epithelial ,  usually multiloculated neoplasm arising from the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts .
an adenoma characterized by the presence of a mixed epithelial cell population .
a benign ,  well circumscribed epithelial neoplasm that arises from the bronchus or the lung parenchyma .
a benign ,  well - circumscribed glandular neoplasm that arises from the middle ear and may exhibit neuroendocrine differentiation .
a benign neoplasm composed of large cells with abundant eosinophilic granular cytoplasm .
weakness or paralysis of at least one of the muscles controlling the movement of the eye .
a benign neoplasm composed of glands containing epithelial clear cells .
a benign lung neoplasm characterized by the presence of a fibrovascular stroma lined by cuboidal to columnar cells .
a hemangioma arising from the brain .
a hormone producing pituitary gland adenoma ,  associated with a hormonal syndrome .
an adenoma or carcinoma of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that produces prolactin .
an adenoma in which the neoplastic epithelial cells are admixed with adipose tissue cells .
strabismus is the intermittent or constant misalignment of an eye so that its line of vision is not pointed at the same object as the other eye .
a rare parathyroid gland adenoma composed of neoplastic cells with abundant cytoplasm .
a glandular epithelial neoplasm that arises from the vagina and shows intestinal differentiation .
a benign epithelial neoplasm characterized by a microcystic pattern .
a small cell lung carcinoma detectable by sputum cytology only .
a morphologic variant of small cell lung carcinoma in combination with a non - small cell carcinoma .
an exophytic glandular neoplasm of the bladder ,  morphologically similar to its intestinal counterpart .
a movement disorder characterized by sustained or intermittent muscle contractions ,  resulting in abnormal movements and / or postures .
a papillary epithelial neoplasm that involves the urinary bladder urothelium .
a neoplastic lesion of the urinary tract transitional cell epithelium characterized by papillary formations .
a rare adenoma that arises from the intrahepatic biliary tree .
an adenoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a benign neoplasm arising from the sweat glands .
an uncommon benign neoplasm of the sweat glands characterized by the presence of clear cells .
a benign epithelial neoplasm with eccrine or apocrine differentiation ,  arising from the sweat glands .
a benign neoplasm arising from the sweat glands .
pathological processes of the snail - like structure  ( cochlea )  of the inner ear  ( labyrinth )  which can involve its nervous tissue ,  blood vessels ,  or fluid  ( endolymph )  .
a malignant neoplasm involving the conjunctiva .
a non - invasive ,  papillary epithelial neoplasm that arises from the epithelium of the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts .
a usually polypoid ,  benign neoplasm that arises from the endometrial cavity .
a benign ,  polypoid neoplasm that arises from the cervix .
a benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of glandular structures which contain clear cells and a fibrotic stroma .
a rare ,  benign ,  asymptomatic neoplasm that arises from the fallopian tube .
a biphasic polypoid neoplasm characterized by the presence of papillary projections that are lined by epithelial cells and fibrotic stroma .
a benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of glandular structures with endometrial - type well - differentiated cells in a fibrotic stroma .
a benign or borderline neoplasm that arises from the ovaries and the fallopian tubes .
a synovial sarcoma characterized by the presence of a spindle cell component only .
a synovial sarcoma arising from the mediastinum .
a synovial sarcoma characterized by the presence of both an epithelial and a spindle cell component .
a synovial sarcoma characterized by the presence of an epithelial cell component only .
an ependymoma which shows conspicuous cellularity without a significant increase in mitotic rate .
a infectious disease involving pediculus humanus capitis .
a contagious infestation of parasitic insects found on the head  ( pediculus humanus capitis )  ,  body  ( pediculus humanus corporis )  ,  or pubic area  ( pthirus pubis )  that typically cause itching and rash .
an ependymoma that arises from the spinal cord .
a variant of ependymoma ,  often found in the spinal cord ,  with tumor cells arranged in fascicles of variable width and cell density .
a rare variant of ependymoma characterized by well formed papillae .
an ependymoma ,  often supratentorial in location ,  characterized by the presence of ependymal cells with a perinuclear halo .
an ependymoma that arises from the brain stem .
an ependymoma that arises from the central nervous system and occurs during childhood .
a pneumonia that is an acute inflammation of the lungs induced by inhalation of metal fumes or toxic gases and vapors .
a dysgerminoma  ( disease )  that involves the pineal body .
a malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary .
a infectious disease involving the pediculus humanus corporis .
a squamous cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of cells with hyperchromatic nuclei ,  scant amount of cytoplasm ,  and peripheral nuclear palisading .
a squamous cell carcinoma characterized by the formation of gland - like structures .
a carcinoma with squamous differentiation arising from the ampulla of vater .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the lacrimal gland .
a rare primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of keratinizing or non - keratinizing malignant squamous cells .
a usually high grade squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is not associated with a germ cell tumor .
a squamous cell tumor that arises from the ovary and is not associated with a germ cell tumor .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the renal pelvis .
a squamous cell carcinoma of the skin with a prominent spindle cell component .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the bile duct .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the skin of the external ear .
a rare squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the ureter .
a rare squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the fallopian tube .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the anal canal .
a cancer involving a femur .
a rare choriocarcinoma that arises from a pulmonary artery .
a choriocarcinoma arising from the ovary .
a malignant germ cell tumor arising from the testis .
a choriocarcinoma  ( disease )  that involves the pineal body .
a malignant tumor predominantly affecting young men and often associated with cryptorchidism .
a benign or malignant soft tissue neoplasm of the mediastinum .
a mature or immature teratoma that arises from the stomach .
a malignant form of teratoma .
a teratoma that arises from the fallopian tube .
a teratoma that occurs in an adult .
a teratoma which may be cystic ;  it is composed entirely of well differentiated ,  adult - type tissues ,  without evidence of fetal - type tissues .
a teratoma that involves the mediastinum .
a malignant form of syringoma .
persistent delay or absence in orgasm not accounted for by a medical reason .
a gastrin - producing neuroendocrine tumor .it is usually located in the pancreas but it is also found at other anatomic sites ,  including the stomach and small intestine .
a well differentiated neuroendocrine tumor that arises from the stomach .
a usually malignant gastrin - producing neuroendocrine tumor arising from the pancreas .
a rare genetic neoplastic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance characterized by multiple ,  recurrent skin cancers that spontaneously resolve .
an ischemic contracture of the forearm that most often occurs secondary to trauma .
sudden onset pyelonephritis .
a breast carcinoma characterized by the formation of irregular ,  finger - like projections of fibrous stroma covered with neoplastic epithelial cells .
a rare primary thymic adenocarcinoma ,  characterized by a papillary growth pattern .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the fallopian tube and is characterized by a papillary architectural pattern .
a neoplasm of lymphoblasts committed to the t - cell lineage ,  typically composed of small to medium - sized blast cells .
a neoplasm of immature malignant lymphocytes  ( lymphoblasts )  committed to the b - cell or t - cell lineage .
an acute t - lymphoblastic leukemia occurring in adults .
an acute lymphoblastic leukemia occurring during adulthood .
a disease involving the trigeminal nerve .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the spinal cord .
a neoplasm that occurs within the spinal canal in the space between the spinal cord and the dura mater .
a disease involving the oculomotor nerve .
an invasive breast carcinoma characterized by the presence of tubular and glandular neoplastic cell structures ,  admixed with islands of neoplastic cells showing squamous differentiation .
an adenosquamous carcinoma that arises from the bile ducts .
an esophageal carcinoma characterized by the presence of distinguishable squamous and glandular carcinomatous components .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the thymus and is characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous carcinomatous components .
a carcinoma with glandular and squamous differentiation arising from the ampulla of vater .
an unusual colon carcinoma characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous carcinomatous components .
a carcinoma that arises from the bartholin gland and is characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells and malignant squamous epithelial cells .
a rare endometrial carcinoma characterized by the presence of both malignant glandular and malignant squamous cellular components .
a meningioma that affects the sheath of the optic nerve .
an infrequent invasive carcinoma of the prostate gland characterized by the presence of both glandular and squamous neoplastic components .
an undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma characterized by the presence of osteoclast - like giant cells and cellular pleomorphism .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the rete testis .
diffuse replacement of the lung tissue by connective tissue .
replacement of the lung tissue by connective tissue in a specific area of the lung .
an epithelial neoplasm of the urethra ,  which is morphologically characterized by the presence of a villous architectural pattern .
a disease that involves the optic chiasma .
a neoplastic or non - neoplastic disorder that affects one of the cranial nerves .
a carcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells with clear cytoplasm which contains neutral lipids .
a nonkeratinizing carcinoma which occurs predominantly in the nasopharynx but also in the tonsils and rarely in other anatomic sites .
a usually aggressive malignant epithelial neoplasm composed of cells with significant cytologic atypia and nuclear pleomorphism .
a malignant neoplasm involving the external ear .
a high grade carcinoma characterized by the presence of comedo - type of tumor cell necrosis in which the necrotic areas are surrounded by a solid proliferation of malignant pleomorphic cells .
a malignant non - seminomatous germ cell tumor that develops as a primary tumor in an anatomic site other than the testis or ovary .
a disease that involves the nerve fiber layer of retina .
an embryonal carcinoma arising from the ovary .
an autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the brca1 or brca2 genes .
a disease involving the visual cortex .
a malignant neoplasm arising from adipocytes ,  that occurs in adults .
a malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the esophagus ,  characterized by multivacuolated lipoblasts with hyperchromatic nuclei ,  a solid pattern of growth ,  and a rich vascular network .
a rare malignant neoplasm arising from adipocytes ,  that occurs in children .
a rare malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the larynx .
a malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the ovary .
a liposarcoma characterized by the presence of a fibroblastic component .
a rare malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the fat cells surrounding the kidney ,  usually of the well - differentiated or myxoid type .
a malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the stomach .
a malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the breast .
a malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of a combination of liposarcomatous morphologic subtypes: myxoid / round cell and well differentiated / dedifferentiated liposarcoma or myxoid / round cell and pleomorphic liposarcoma .
a morphologic variant of well differentiated liposarcoma occurring most often in the retroperitoneum and paratesticular area .
a morphologic variant of well differentiated liposarcoma characterized by the presence of bland spindle cells and lipoblasts within a myxoid or fibrous stroma .
disease involving the median nerve ,  from its origin at the brachial plexus to its termination in the hand .
a rare malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the vulva .
a malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the skin .
a malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the anterior ,  middle or posterior mediastinum .
a malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the intracranial region .
a hormone producing or non - producing pituitary gland adenoma or carcinoma ,  not associated with a hormonal syndrome .
a hormone producing pituitary gland tumor ,  associated with a hormonal syndrome .
a neuroblastoma arising from the adrenal gland .
a malignant neoplasm involving the adrenal medulla
a neuritis that involves the forelimb .
a disorder characterized by loss of optic nerve fibers .
a rare benign cystadenoma that arises from the seminal vesicle .
an exceptionally rare cystadenoma that arises from the rete ovarii .
a benign mesonephric neoplasm that arises from the uterine ligament and occurs in women with von hippel - lindau disease .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the uterine ligament .
a rare benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of smooth muscle cells growing within veins .
any nerve disorder caused by the entrapment and compression of a nerve .
formation of nodules in the isthmus of the fallopian tube due to fallopian tube diverticulosis .
chronic inflammation of the fallopian tube .
the presence of pus in the fallopian tube .
acute or chronic inflammation of the fallopian tube .
a disease involving the peripheral nervous system .
a neuroendocrine tumor that arises from the small intestine and produces vasoactive intestinal peptide .
a usually malignant pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor producing vasoactive intestinal peptide  ( vip )  .
a breast adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of serous  ( acinic cell )  differentiation .
a rare serous adenocarcinoma that arises from the uterine ligament .
a rheumatologic disorder that involves the pulmonary valve .
a disease involving the pulmonary valve .
a serous adenocarcinoma that involves the uterine corpus .
a metastasizing ,  slow - growing malignant epithelial neoplasm that arises from the exocrine pancreas .
a rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the cervix .
inflammation of the endocervix .
a term describing a malignant soft tissue tumor which consists of two or more mesenchymal lines of differentiation ,  excluding a fibroblastic line of differentiation .
the presence of abnormal amounts of protein in the urine .
a very rare breast adenocarcinoma with sebaceous differentiation .
a carcinoma that arises from the vulva .
a rare benign lung tumor with perivascular epithelioid cell differentiation .
a primary or metastatic meningioma that is present in the lung .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the hilar region of the lung .
a rare ,  benign wart - like skin lesion of unknown etiology that is usually found in the genital or perianal area and consists of hyperkeratosis and aggregates of foam cell macrophages .
a primary or metastatic neoplasm of hematopoietic origin that affects the brain ,  meninges ,  or spinal cord .
a cavernous hemangioma characterized by the presence of hylanized vascular channels and is often associated with the presence of calcifications ,  fibrosis ,  and hemorrhage .
a cavernous hemangioma arising from the colon .
a cavernous hemangioma arising from the face .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the rectum .
a disease involving the tympanic membrane .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the esophagus .
a hepatoblastoma characterized by the presence of fetal and embryonal epithelial components and a mesenchymal component .
a pure fetal or fetal and embryonal epithelial hepatoblastoma characterized by the presence of broad trabeculae .
urolithiasis in which the composition of the stones is predominantly urate .
a low grade malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the surface of the bone .
a non - hodgkin or hodgkin lymphoma that arises in the cerebral hemispheres as a primary lesion .
a laboratory test result which indicates free hemoglobin in the urine .
a group of lymphomas displaying molecular ,  morphologic ,  immunophenotypic ,  and clinical overlap between classical hodgkin lymphoma and diffuse large b - cell lymphoma .
a hodgkin or non - hodgkin lymphoma that occurs during childhood .
a lymphoma that occurs in an adult .
a lymphoma that arises from the breast .
a rare endometrioid adenocarcinoma that arises from the uterine ligament .
anemia resulting from the premature destruction of the peripheral blood red cells .
a cervical adenocarcinoma with the histologic characteristics of the endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the fallopian tube and resembles the endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the uterus .
a malignant germ cell tumor arising from the testis .
an electrocardiographic finding of an injury in leads corresponding to the anatomic region of the posteroinferior wall of the heart .
a myocardial infarction  ( disease )  that involves the cardiac septum .
an electrocardiographic finding of an injury in leads corresponding to the anatomic region of the apex of the heart .
an electrocardiographic finding of an injury in leads corresponding to the anatomic region of the subendocardial layer of the wall of the heart .
an electrocardiographic finding of an injury in leads corresponding to the anatomic region of the posterolateral wall of the heart .
an electrocardiographic finding of an injury in leads corresponding to the anatomic region of the inferolateral wall of the heart .
a history of myocardial infarction in the absence of clinical symptoms and positive electrocardiographic findings .
a chondrosarcoma arising from the surface of bone .
a chondrosarcoma characterized by the presence of myxoid changes .
a non - disseminated skeletal or extraskeletal chondrosarcoma .
a rare ,  usually low grade chondrosarcoma characterized by the presence of tumor cells with clear cytoplasm .
a germ cell tumor that involves the retroperitoneal space .
a benign or malignant sweat gland neoplasm with apocrine differentiation .
a malignant neoplasm involving the endocardium .
a localized or multifocal mesothelioma arising from the peritoneum and less often the pleura .
a congenital hemolytic anemia caused by defects of the erythrocyte membrane ,  enzyme deficiencies ,  or hemoglobinopathies .
an anaplastic ependymoma occurring in adults .
a malignant mesenchymoma occurring in children .
a malignant mesenchymoma occurring in adults .
a benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of cystic glandular and fibrous tissues and clear cells .
a benign neoplasm of glandular epithelium characterized by the presence of clear or hobnail cells within a dense fibrous stroma and cystic structures .
an uncommon benign neoplasm of glandular epithelium characterized by the presence of clear or hobnail cells within a dense fibrous stroma .
a slow growing ,  locally recurring ,  very well differentiated papillary squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the penis .
an anxiety disorder characterized by an intense ,  irrational fear of an object ,  activity ,  or situation .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the brachial nerve plexus .
a morphologic variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid gland that more often affects young patients and commonly metastasizing to the lungs .
a rare benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of smooth muscle cells growing within the veins of the uterine corpus .
an unusual condition characterized by the presence of numerous small benign smooth muscle neoplasms located throughout the body of the uterus .
a carcinoma that arises from the common bile duct distal to the insertion of the cystic duct .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
an anxiety disorder characterized by an intense ,  irrational fear of venturing out into open places or situations in which help  ( or escape )  might not be available should excessive anxiety or panic symptoms develop .
an ovarian malignant germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of at least two different germ cell components .
urachal cancer is a type of bladder cancer ,  making up less than 1% of all bladder cancers .
a papillary transitional cell carcinoma that arises from the renal pelvis .
a papillary tumor originating in the renal pelvis .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the renal pelvis .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the kidney .
an osteosarcoma arising from the kidney .
a meningioma that affects the internal auditory canal .
breast adenosis characterized by the presence of ducts with distended lumen and columnar cell metaplasia .
breast fibrocystic change characterized by the absence of epithelial cell hyperplasia .
a non - neoplastic disorder characterized by epithelial and / or myoepithelial tissue growth in the breast lobules .
breast adenosis characterized by the presence of extensive apocrine metaplasia .
an overwhelming ,  irrational ,  and persistent fear of animals .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the breast .
infiltration of the skin and subcutaneous tissue by leukemic cells without evidence of leukemia in the bone marrow and peripheral blood .
a leukemia characterized by the absence of leukemic cells in the peripheral blood .
a mature or immature teratoma affecting the central nervous system and occurring in adults .
a central nervous system mature teratoma that occurs in an adult .
a teratoma composed exclusively of fully differentiated ,  'adult - type' tissue elements that are sometimes arranged in a pattern resembling normal tissue relationships .
a variant of teratoma composed of incompletely differentiated components resembling fetal tissues .
an overwhelming ,  irrational ,  and persistent fear of being diagnosed with cancer .
a leydig cell tumor characterized by a large size ,  cellular atypia ,  high mitotic activity ,  vascular invasion and necrotic changes .
a rare dysgammaglobulinemia characterized by low or undetectable serum levels of immunoglobulin class e  ( ige )  .
a broad classification of dysgammaglobulinemias characterized by low or undetectable serum levels of one of the five immunoglobulin classes .
an overwhelming ,  irrational ,  and persistent fear of contracting acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
a rare sex cord - stromal tumor that arises from the testis .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the heart .
a malignant hemangiopericytoma arising in the heart .
a melanoma arising from the choroid ,  ciliary body ,  or the iris .
a spindle cell melanoma that involves the optic choroid .
a spindle cell melanoma that involves the ciliary body .
a glomus tumor characterized by huge vascular channel formations .
an overwhelming ,  irrational ,  and persistent fear of traveling in an aircraft .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the esophagus .
a germ cell tumor of the central nervous system occurring in children .
a germ cell tumor that occurs during childhood .
a papilloma that arises from the ciliated respiratory mucosa that lines the frontal sinus .
a benign exophytic squamous cell neoplasm with papillary growth that arises from the nasal vestibule .
brown - sequard syndrome is a rare neurological condition that results from an injury or damage to one side of the spinal cord .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor of the ovary characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that contain intracytoplasmic mucin and may resemble the epithelial cells of the endocervix or gastrointestinal tract .
complete paralysis of the lower half of the body including both legs ,  often caused by damage to the spinal cord .
a germ cell tumor that arises from the testis during childhood .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the ovary and occurs in children .
a germ cell tumor that arises from the ovary and occurs in children .
a melanoma that arises from leptomeningeal melanocytes .
a primary or metastatic malignant tumor involving the leptomeninges .
an anxiety disorder precipitated by an experience of intense fear or horror while exposed to a traumatic  ( especially life - threatening )  event .
a melanoma that arises from leptomeningeal melanocytes and occurs in childhood .
a melanoma that arises from leptomeningeal melanocytes and occurs in adulthood .
a cancer involving a dorsal plus ventral thalamus .
a disease involving the mitral valve .
a rare cervical mucinous adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of signet ring cells .
gastritis resulting from herpes virus .
a meningioma that arises from the meninges of the thoracic region of the spinal cord .
a meningioma that affects the jugular foramen .
a meningioma that affects the cerebral hemispheres .
a cystic meningioma that grows within the cerebral hemispheres .
a meningioma that affects the cerebral sulcus .
a meningioma that affects the lateral ventricle of the brain .
a neoplasm of the renal pelvis in which the epithelial cells grow downward into the underlying supportive tissue .
a benign neoplasm of the renal pelvis that involves the transitional epithelium projecting above the surrounding epithelial surface and consisting of villous or arborescent outgrowths of fibrovascular stroma .
a disorder in which the immune system is unable to mount an adequate immune response .
a broad classification of disorders that affect the cell - mediated aspect of the immune response .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the bronchi .
a morphologic variant of leiomyosarcoma arising from the uterine corpus .
reduction in the number of lymphocytes .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the nasal cavity .
a laboratory test result indicating a decreased number of white blood cells in the peripheral blood .
a choriocarcinoma that arises from the testis during childhood .
a malignant mixed germ cell neoplasm that arises from the testis during childhood .
an embryonal carcinoma that arises from the testis during childhood .
a familial carcinoma inherited in an autosomal dominant trait .
an urothelial carcinoma that arises from the urothelial lining of the prostatic urethra .
a male urethral cancer that involves the prostatic urethra .
a highly aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the ovary .
a carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of small malignant cells .
a kaposi sarcoma arising from the rectum .
inflammation of the conjunctiva of the eye .
a malignant hemangiopericytoma characterized by the presence of necrotic changes and in some cases high mitotic activity .
a squamous cell intraepithelial neoplasia that involves the cornea .
a malignant neoplasm involving the cornea .
a disease involving the aortic valve .
a rare neoplasm of mesothelial origin that arises from the pericardium .
a rare ,  circumscribed or encapsulated tumor arising from the follicular cells of the thyroid gland .
an osteosarcoma arising from the mediastinum .
a malignant hemangiopericytoma arising in the mediastinum .
a rare morphologic variant of bladder adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells and clear cells forming a diffuse pattern .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant mixed epithelial tumor of the ovary .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor of the ovary characterized by the presence of glands and / or cysts lined by neoplastic cells that resemble endometrial cells .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of papillary proliferations .
a disease involving the articular cartilage of joint .
a mature teratoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children .
a mature or immature teratoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children .
an ovarian teratoma which may be cystic ,  composed entirely of well differentiated ,  adult - type tissues ,  without evidence of fetal - type tissues .
a germ cell tumor that arises from the ovary and is composed of tissues that originate from two or three of the following germ layers ,  endoderm ,  ectoderm ,  or mesoderm .
a papillary neoplasm of the urinary bladder in which the transitional cells form papillae .
an inherited condition characterized by the development of kidney oncocytomas which are often bilateral and multifocal .
a benign tumor of the kidney ,  characterized by the presence of large cells with abundant eosinophilic granular cytoplasm .
an extragonadal malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the mediastinum .
a broad classification for humoral immunodeficiencies .
a rare ,  hormonally functioning or non - functioning pituitary gland adenocarcinoma that produces growth hormone .
a controversial term ,  used for renal papillary lesions which measure 1cm or less in diameter and contain small ,  regular nuclei .
a genetic deficiency of any of the component of the complement system  ( including the classical ,  alternative ,  and terminal pathway components )  ,  that can either be acquired or inherited .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the cardia of stomach .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the cardia of stomach .
a rare ,  hormonally functioning or non - functioning pituitary gland adenocarcinoma that produces thyrotropin .
an adenoma or carcinoma of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that produces thyrotropin .
a malignant neoplasm of the ovary with an invasive epithelial component and a fibrotic stroma .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the epicardium of the heart .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the heart usually originating in the epicardial or pericardial fatty tissue .
benign and malignant astrocytomas that arise from astrocytes in the cerebellum .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm within the cerebral hemisphere often associated with partial or complete agenesis of the corpus callosum .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the central nervous system frequently found in midline locations such as the corpus callosum ,  the quadrigeminal plate ,  the hypothalamus ,  the spinal canal or the cauda equina .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the corpus callosum .
viral infection of the esophagus .
a disease that is caused by genetic modifications where those modifications are inherited from a parent's genome .
a condition in which the thymus gland is abnomally located ;  this can be secondary to failure of descent during fetal development ,  or failure of involution .
a slow - growing malignant bone tumor arising from the remnants of the notochord and occurring in the clivus .
a slow - growing malignant bone tumor arising from the remnants of the notochord and occurring in the clivus .
a rare type of teratoma that arises from the ovary and resembles a malformed fetus .
a mature teratoma that arises from the ovary and presents as a large solid mass .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the major vestibular gland .
a malignant hemangiopericytoma occurring in the adult population .
a solitary fibrous tumor / hemangiopericytoma ,  grade 3 that arises from the brain and occurs in the adult population .
a meningioma that affects the anterior visual pathway .
meningiomas that affects both optic nerves .
a meningioma that affects the cerebellopontine angle .
an eccrine adenocarcinoma that arises from the sweat glands in the vulva .
a malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor characterized by the presence of malignant cells that contain melanin and formation of psammoma bodies .
a rare variant of malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor .
an indolent ,  mature b - cell neoplasm composed of small ,  round b - lymphocytes .
a form of melanoma occurring most often on the plantar ,  palmar ,  subungual ,  and periungual skin .
an osteosarcoma arising from the liver .
a diffuse or multifocal proliferation of uniform nevoid polygonal cells in the leptomeninges .
a meningioma that affects the anterior foramen magnum .
an abnormal growth of the cells that comprise the tissues of the brainstem .
an astrocytoma that arises from the brain stem and occurs during childhood .
a serous cystadenoma of the ovary characterized by the presence of small papillary projections in the inner surface of the cysts .
a benign serous neoplasm characterized by the presence of papillary proliferations on the surface of the ovary .
a serous adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of a papillary architectural pattern .
a mature teratoma that arises from the central nervous system during childhood .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the eyelid .
a uveal melanoma that arises from the choroid .
a malignant neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells resembling endometrial cells in a fibrotic stroma .
an infiltrating adenocarcinoma derived from ceruminous glands in the external auditory canal .
an apocrine adenocarcinoma that arises from the sweat glands in the vulva .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the central nervous system .
a benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the rectum .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm arising from the wall of the colon and rectum .
a benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by mucinous columnar epithelial cells in a fibrotic stroma .
a benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of glands with mucinous columnar epithelial cells in a fibrotic stroma .
a malignant testicular mixed germ cell neoplasm that occurs during childhood .
an invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder characterized by the presence of clear cells .
an invasive transitional cell carcinoma that arises from the urinary bladder urothelium .
a signet ring cell carcinoma that involves the urinary bladder .
a morphologic variant of lung adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of acinar structures composed of columnar or cuboidal cells .
a benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the rete testis .
a melanotic schwannoma that affects the mediastinum .
an intermediate grade malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm with chondroblastic differentiation .
a capillary hemangioma arising from the breast .
a hemangioma characterized by the presence of epithelioid endothelial cells ,  arising from the breast .
a myxoid chondrosarcoma occurring in children .
a myxoid chondrosarcoma occurring in adults .
a disease involving the connective tissue .
a histologically benign tumor ,  usually cystic with a vascular mural nodule ,  that is most often found in the cerebellum though it has been reported at other sites within the neuraxis .
a hemangioblastoma that involves the brainstem .
a non - metastasizing ,  well circumscribed neoplasm that arises from the vagina and is characterized by the presence of a predominant benign mesenchymal component and benign glandular or squamous epithelial cells .
a squamous cell lung carcinoma detectable by sputum cytology only .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of extensive differentiation into endodermal type glandular structures .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of extensive differentiation into hepatic tissue .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of multiple dilated spaces lined by cells that resemble mesothelial cells .
a meningioma that affects the clivus .
a rare ,  benign neoplasm that arises from the bartholin gland and is characterized by the presence of a fibromuscular stroma and glands lined by mucin - secreting epithelial cells ,  arranged in a lobular architecture .
a melanoma arising from the choroid ,  ciliary body ,  or the iris .
a mixed cell uveal melanoma that involves the ciliary body .
a rare uveal melanoma that arises from the ciliary body .
a mixed cell uveal melanoma that involves the optic choroid .
a thymic epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic large ,  polygonal epithelial cells with large vesicular nuclei and prominent nucleoli .
an imbalanced nutritional status resulting from excessive intake of nutrients .
an extranodal lymphoma that arises from the heart and / or the pericardium .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of small and medium sized vessels that predominate over the meningioma cells .
a meningioma that affects the posterior foramen magnum .
a carcinoma arising from the ovary .
a papilloma that arises from the ciliated respiratory mucosa that lines the ethmoid sinus .
a benign neoplasm that can arise from any of the adrenal cortical layers .
a benign neoplasm that arises from the ciliated respiratory mucosa that lines the ethmoid sinus .
a schwannoma that involves the pleura .
a morphologic variant of leiomyosarcoma arising from the uterus corpus .
a benign neoplastic process characterized by the presence of multiple vestibular papillomas in the vulva .
stage 0 includes: 0a  ( ta ,  n0 ,  m0 )  ;  0is  ( tis ,  n0 ,  m0 )  .
an astrocytoma that arises from the visual pathway and occurs during childhood .
a glioma affecting the optic tract and occurring in childhood .
an uncommon malignant neoplasm that arises from the chest wall bones .
an adenocarcinoma of the breast characterized by the presence of two intermingled cellular components: cells with abundant granular ,  eosinophilic cytoplasm ,  and cells with abundant cytoplasm containing fine empty vacuoles .
a rare breast adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of neoplastic oncocytic cells .
an invasive adenocarcinoma of the breast with a favorable prognosis .
the inflammation of a vertebra .
a disease involving the muscle tissue .
kummell disease ,  or avascular necrosis of a vertebral body ,  presents as vertebral osteonecrosis typically affecting a thoracic vertebra with compression deformity ,  intravertebral vacuum cleft ,  and exaggerated kyphosis weeks to months after a minor traumatic injury .
a rare benign slow growing adipose tumor ,  characterized by the presence of polygonal brown fat cells with abundant cytoplasm ,  that arises within the nervous system .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising endobronchially .
a locally aggressive hemangioma that arises from the bone .
an adenoma that arises from the vagina and is characterized by a villous architectural pattern .
a primary immune deficiency disorder characterized by defective cd40 signaling ;  via b cells affecting class switch recombination  ( csr )  and somatic hypermutation .
a hemangioma arising from the cerebral hemisphere .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the nipple
a hemangioma arising from the skin of the scrotum .
a choriocarcinoma of the central nervous system that occurs in an adult .
a choriocarcinoma that arises from the central nervous system and occurs during childhood .
an angiokeratoma that is located on the scrotum or vulva .
a benign ,  usually solitary ,  well circumscribed multicystic neoplasm that arises from the breast and typically affects young females .
a pineoblastoma occurring in adults .
an immature teratoma that arises from the central nervous system and occurs during childhood .
a poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma that arises from the breast .
a large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma that involves the lung ( s )  .
froelich syndrome is characterized by obesity and hypogonadism due to a hypothalamic - pituitary disorder .
this is usually an oligoclonal cd8 +  lymphocytic infiltration of various organs .
a disorder characterized by non - neoplastic bone formation in soft tissues .
a rare neuropsychiatric disorder whose primary feature is the delusion that relatives or close acquaintances are not the persons that they are known to be .
a choriocarcinoma that arises from the testis and is characterized by the predominance of cytotrophoblastic and intermediate trophoblastic cells .
a bone osteosarcoma affecting multiple skeletal sites ,  with multifocal lesions discovered within 6 months of the appearance of the initial tumor .
a bone osteosarcoma affecting multiple skeletal sites ,  with multifocal lesions discovered between 6 and 24 months after the appearance of the initial tumor .
disorders related or resulting from use of amphetamines .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the fundus of stomach .
a carcinoma that arises from the pylorus .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the body of stomach .
a morphologic variant of testicular seminoma characterized by the presence of seminoma cells arranged in tubular patterns and few lymphocytes .
a carcinoma involving a male urethral gland .
a type ab thymoma which is characterized by an aggressive clinical course  ( capsular invasion ,  infiltration of the surrounding tissues )  and can metastasize .
an aggressive ,  high - grade ,  and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the colon .
a mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the intrahepatic bile ducts .
a rare intracranial schwannoma that affects the jugular foramen .
carcinoma that affects both breasts in a simultaneous or non - simultaneous manner .
carcinoma that is detected in one breast within two months from the diagnosis of carcinoma in the other breast .
a rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the internal auditory canal ,  often presenting as an acoustic tumor .
a lymphoma that affects the structures of the chest wall .
a rare non - hodgkin or hodgkin lymphoma that arises in and is confined to the lung at the time of diagnosis .
a rare lymphoma that arises from the bone or soft tissue of the sternum .
a rare ,  malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary .
an invasive malignant tumor that arises from the breast .
a primary endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium characterized by the presence of numerous finger - like villi lined by neoplastic columnar cells .
a morphologic variant of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma occurring in children .
a morphologic variant of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma occurring in female children .
a morphologic variant of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma arising from the vagina .
a morphologic variant of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma occurring in female children .
a disease involving the basal ganglia .
a kaposi sarcoma arising from the colon .
an adenoma that arises from the vagina and is characterized by a tubular architectural pattern .
a pilocytic astrocytoma that occurs during adolescence .
a pilocytic astrocytoma that occurs during childhood .
elevated pressure in a confined space enclosed by fascia or eschar ,  which may lead to vascular compromise and subsequent ischemic injury to the tissue within the space .
inflammation of the peripheral motor nerves .
an adenoma that arises from the rete ovarii .
an exceptionally rare cystadenofibroma that arises from the rete ovarii .
a group of non - invasive epithelial proliferations that occur in the ductal system of the breast .
a breast lesion characterized by the presence of dilated terminal ductal lobular units in which the epithelial lining has been replaced by a single layer of mildly atypical cells ,  or there is atypical ,  monotonous epithelial hyperplasia of three to five layers .
an infiltrating transitional cell carcinoma that arises from the renal pelvis and exhibits sarcomatoid features .
a morphologic variant of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma occurring in adults .
a morphologic variant of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma arising from the vagina .
an extremely rare meningioma that arises as a primary ectopic tumor in the ethmoid sinus .
a mature or immature teratoma that arises in the pineal region .
a carcinoma that involves the liver .
a primary endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium characterized by the presence of eosinophilic malignant glandular epithelial cells .
a mediastinal lymphoma with molecular ,  morphologic ,  immunophenotypic ,  and clinical features of both mediastinal  ( thymic )  large b - cell lymphoma and classical hodgkin lymphoma .
a lymphoma that arises from the mediastinum .
a meningioma that affects the superior sagittal sinus and invades the parasagittal angle .
a neuroblastoma that affects the spinal cord .
a small ,  benign growth that arises from the skin .
a germ cell cancer that is associated with an embryo .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the small intestine .
a carcinoma that arises from the transitional epithelium of the ureter .
a malignant mixed epithelial neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is composed predominantly of serous and endocervical - type mucinous epithelium .
ovarian carcinoma that has developed in relatives of patients that have a history of ovarian carcinoma .
a lymphoma that involves the eye .
a benign multifocal proliferation of glomus cells forming clusters around dilated vascular spaces .
deficiency in the enamel tissue that results in the formation of grooves ,  pits ,  or dents on the surface of the affected teeth .
a neoplasm of the bladder in which the epithelial cells grow downward into the underlying supportive tissue ,  which often causes hematuria .
a rare benign condition ,  characterized by a papillary growth in the urinary tract with a central fibrovascular core .
a neoplasm of the urethra in which the epithelial cells grow downward into the underlying supportive tissue .
a neoplasm of the ureter in which the epithelial cells grow downward into the underlying supportive tissue ,  which often causes hematuria .
a benign epithelial neoplasm that produces visible warty projections from the epithelial surface of the ureter .
retinoblastoma during childhood that has not spread beyond the eye .
a brain meningioma that occurs during childhood .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the sphenoid sinus .
a malignant teratoma that arises from the stomach .
neurotic reactions to unusual ,  severe ,  or overwhelming military stress .
an osteosarcoma usually arising from the metaphysis of long bones .
a carcinoma that arises from the transitional zone at the junction of the rectum and anus .
a carcinoma that arises from the bartholin gland and is characterized by the presence of malignant squamous epithelial cells .
an invasive or non - invasive papillary transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder .
an infiltrating bladder transitional cell carcinoma exhibiting micropapillary growth pattern .
a rare syndrome characterized by severe watery diarrhea ,  hypokalemia ,  and achlorhydria .
pain or discomfort caused by exposure of the dentin layer of tooth to thermal ,  tactile ,  or other stimuli .
an epithelioid sarcoma involving the extremities .
uveal melanoma characterized by the presence of intermediate cells which are similar to but smaller than epithelioid cells .
iris melanoma characterized by the presence of intermediate cells which are similar to but smaller than epithelioid cells .
a uveal melanoma that arises from the iris .
choroid melanoma characterized by the presence of intermediate cells which are similar to but smaller than epithelioid cells .
ciliary body melanoma characterized by the presence of intermediate cells which are similar to but smaller than epithelioid cells .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the gallbladder .
diseases caused by abnormal function of the mitochondria .
an astrocytoma ,  without designation of benign or malignant ,  that is found in the supratentorial region .
a benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by mucinous columnar epithelial cells in a fibrotic stroma .
a benign tumor ,  composed of lobules of mature adipocytes ,  that penetrates the surrounding tissue from which it arises .
a benign tumor ,  composed of mature adipocytes ,  that arises within the tendon sheath .
a benign well - circumscribed tumor ,  composed of lobules of mature adipocytes ,  that arises within the lumbosacral tissue of the spine .
an intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that produces abundant mucin .
a benign adenomatous neoplasm that arises from the mucous glands in the bronchus .
a squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx that arises from the glottic area .
a morphologic variant of extrahepatic bile duct adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelium composed of clear cells .
an immature teratoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children .
a rare cutaneous lesion presenting as a scaly verrucous plaque .
a epithelioid cell melanoma that involves the optic choroid .
a epithelioid cell melanoma that involves the ciliary body .
a morphologic variant of large cell lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of a solid nodular or anastomotic trabecular growth pattern ,  peripheral palisading ,  and comedo type necrosis .
an aggressive variant of cervical squamous cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of nests of malignant basaloid squamous cells with scant amount of cytoplasm .
an aggressive ,  human papillomavirus - related squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the penis .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the vulva and is characterized by the presence of nests of malignant basaloid cells with a scant amount of cytoplasm .
a basaloid squamous cell carcinoma that involves the zone of skin .
a rare primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of tumor cell lobules with peripheral palisading ,  and a basophilic staining pattern .
a rare morphologic variant of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma .
multiple meningiomas that affect the skull base .
a group of heterogeneous lymphoid tumors generally expressing one or more b - cell antigens or representing malignant transformations of b - lymphocytes .
a dermoid cyst that involves the spinal cord .
a rare variant of malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor that arises from the mediastinum .
a cystic teratoma that occurs in an adult .
a lung carcinoma characterized by a combination of small cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma .
a papillary carcinoma arising from the thyroid gland from multiple foci .
a morphologic variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid gland characterized by the presence of pseudostratified malignant follicular cells .
a morphologic variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid gland characterized by the presence of tall malignant follicular cells ,  arranged in papillary and trabecular patterns .
a hairy cell leukemia that involves the spleen .
an epithelioid sarcoma occurring in childhood .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of collections of thin - walled spaces .
a leukemia  ( disease )  that involves the spleen .
a meningioma that affects the diaphragma sellae .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the epiglottis .
hairy cell leukemia that is resistant to treatment .
a hematologic malignancy that is resistant to treatment .
inflammation of the bladder due to irradiation .
a highly aggressive carcinoma ,  histologically resembling small cell lung carcinoma .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the esophagus .
an aggressive neuroendocrine carcinoma arising from the ampulla of vater and the periampullary region .
a reactive inflammatory disorder affecting the bladder .
a rare neuroendocrine carcinoma that arises from the bartholin gland and is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells and high mitotic activity .
an aggressive ,  small cell ,  poorly differentiated thymic neuroendocrine carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of a high mitotic rate and numerous apoptotic bodies .
a rare malignant neoplasm arising from specialized prostatic stroma .
a well - circumscribed benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the rectum .
inflammation of the thyroid gland .
a lung adenocarcinoma detectable by sputum cytology only .
a large cell lung carcinoma detectable by sputum cytology only .
an anal carcinoma arising from the transitional zone of the anal canal .
an anal squamous cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant cells with hyperchromatic nuclei and peripheral nuclear palisading .
a large ,  well differentiated squamous cell carcinoma with a cauliflower - like appearance ,  characterized by the presence of an exophytic and endophytic growth pattern .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the mucosa of the anal canal .
an epithelial neoplasm of the anterior pituitary gland in which the neoplastic cells stain positive with acidic and basic dyes .
thyroiditis associated with painless enlargement of the thyroid gland .
a benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by endometrial - type well - differentiated cells .
anemia in which the red blood cell volume is normal .
an immature teratoma characterized by the presence of an intermediate amount of undifferentiated tissues .
a subtype of large cell neuroendocrine lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of large neuroendocrine cells in combination with adenocarcinoma ,  squamous cell carcinoma ,  giant cell carcinoma and /  or spindle cell carcinoma .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of psammoma bodies that predominate over the meningeal cells .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of spindle cells that form bundles in a collagen matrix .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the presence of tumor cells that form lobules .
a who grade i meningioma characterized by the coexistence of meningothelial cells and fibrous architectural patterns .
a morphologically malignant thymoma that is entirely confined within the capsule .
an intraluminal papillary neoplasm ,  usually with high grade intraepithelial neoplasia ,  that arises from the gallbladder .
a breast fibroadenoma characterized by a very large size .
a malignant neoplasm involving the meninx of spinal cord .
a recently recognized variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia / small lymphocytic lymphoma  ( cll / sll )  expressing somatic hypermutations of the immunoglobulin heavy chain  ( igh )  genes .
an embryonal carcinoma that arises from the central nervous system and occurs during childhood .
a embryonal carcinoma of the central nervous system that occurs in an adult .
a mucinous cystadenocarcinoma that involves the pancreas .
a cystic epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of columnar mucin - producing epithelial cells ,  ovarian - type stroma formation ,  and a focal or extensive invasive carcinomatous component .
a non - invasive malignant cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas .
the involuntary loss of urine in females secondary to insufficient strength of the pelvic floor muscles ;  this can result from physical changes following pregnancy and childbirth ,  or as a response to a decrease in estrogen during menopause .
a morphologic variant of uterine corpus leiomyoma characterized by zones of hemorrhagic infarction surrounded by hypercellular areas .
a morphologic variant of leiomyoma arising from the uterine corpus .
a transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder that arises from the urachal epithelium .
a variant of prostate carcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant cells forming syncytial patterns and dense lymphocytic infiltrates .
a rare dysgammaglobulinemia characterized by low or undetectable serum levels of immunoglobulin class d  ( igd )  .
fallopian tube carcinoma that has developed in relatives of patients that have a history of fallopian tube carcinoma .
a morphologic variant of testicular seminoma characterized by the presence of seminoma cells arranged in cribriform patterns and few lymphocytes .
a combination of distressing physical ,  psychologic ,  or behavioral changes that occur during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle .
a adenocarcinofibroma that involves the body of uterus .
a rare adenocarcinoma arising from skene gland .
an endometrioid adenocarcinoma arising from the endometrium .
an osteosarcoma arising from the soft tissue ,  and occurring during childhood .
abnormal growth of the cells of the urethra  ( lower urinary tract )  without malignant characteristics .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of connective tissue stalks that contain a blood vessel and are lined by cells with clear cytoplasm and prominent nucleoli .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the organs that comprise the urinary system .
an uncommon variant of breast adenosis characterized by the presence of irregularly shaped glands ,  epithelial cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm ,  and prominent myopepithelial cells .
stage iv includes t4b ,  no , mo / any t ni ,  mo /  any t n2 mo ,  /  any t n3 mo /  any t any n m1 : t4b: tumor invades the pelvic wall ,  abdominal wall .
any nerve disorder affecting the axon of a nerve .
a disease involving the urethra .
a benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by serous epithelial cells in a fibrotic stroma .
a rare self - limiting ,  rapidly growing ,  non - encapsulated benign neoplasm that arises from the cranium .
a self - limiting ,  rapidly growing ,  non - encapsulated benign neoplasm that arises from the soft tissues .
a spindle cell melanoma that involves the iris .
a tuberculosis that involves the esophagus .
a metaplastic lesion of the urothelium found in the urinary bladder .
so - called nephrogenic adenoma is a distinct metaplastic lesion of the urothelium characterized by aggregates of cuboidal or hobnail cells .
a malignant neoplasm involving the urethra
a dysgerminoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children .
a non - neoplastic disorder that usually affects postmenopausal women .
the developmental arrest and architectural distortion of the thymus that results in immunodeficiency .
a biphasic rectal carcinoma with a spindle cell ,  sarcomatoid component .
a cancer involving a male urethra .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of aggregates of polygonal malignant cells with clear cytoplasm and prominent nucleoli .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the vulva and is characterized by the presence of keratin pearls .
a term used by urologists to describe an infiltrating carcinoma of the bladder that has not invaded into the muscularis propria of the bladder wall regardless of histologic type or grade .
incomplete development of the pituitary gland .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the adrenal medulla
a cancer that involves the female urethra .
a squamous papilloma that involves the zone of skin .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the pulmonary vein .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the pulmonary artery it is characterized by a proliferation of neoplastic spindle cells .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the superior vena cava .
a central nervous system embryonal tumor ,  not otherwise specified arising from the cerebral hemispheres .
a neuroendocrine tumor that arises from the colon and produces glucagon - like peptides .
a neuroendocrine tumor that arises from the gastrointestinal tract and produces glucagon - like peptides .
a rapidly growing squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the vulva .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the vulva and is characterized by the absence of keratin pearls .
a benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by endometrial - type well - differentiated cells in a fibrotic stroma .
an anthrax disease that results in infection located in skin ,  has material basis in bacillus anthracis ,  which is transmitted by contact with infected animals or animal products .
a germinoma that arises from the pineal gland .
a germinoma arising from the brain during childhood .
a germ cell tumor arising from brain during childhood .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of collections of vesicles that are surrounded by connective tissue .
a primary endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium characterized by the presence of spindled malignant epithelial cells .
a neoplasm with perivascular epithelioid cell differentiation arising from the uterine corpus wall .
a malignant glandular epithelial neoplasm arising from the ovary .
a benign polypoid growth in the middle ear .
a condition characterized by the presence of a monoclonal gammopathy  ( mg )  in which the clonal mass has not reached a predefined state in which the condition is considered malignant .
a benign ,  usually asymptomatic small mesothelial tumor that arises from the epididymis .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the breast parenchyma and is characterized by cellular discohesion resulting in a pseudoangiosarcomatous pattern .
a benign neoplasm arising from mesothelial cells .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the breast parenchyma and is characterized by the presence of spindle - shaped malignant cells .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the breast parenchyma and is characterized by the presence of large malignant cells that exhibit keratinization .
a rare aggressive rhabdomyosarcoma occurring in children .
an epstein - barr virus negative disorder with a chronic clinical course affecting predominantly adults and characterized by the proliferation of large granular lymphocytes with natural killer cell immunophenotype .
an infection that develops in the diverticula of the intestinal tract .
a somatostatin - producing neuroendocrine tumor that arises from the duodenum .
a rare poorly differentiated morphologic variant of large cell lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of rhabdoid cells .
a meningioma that affects the petrous apex .
a variant of cervical squamous cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of keratin pearls .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the portion of the urethra that is close to the bladder .
osteochondrosis of the growth plate near the tibial tuberosity .
an epithelioid sarcoma of the proximal type involving the vulva .
an epithelioid sarcoma predominantly involving the pelvis ,  perineum ,  and genital organs .
a tumor arising from the ependymal lining of the ventricles .
a mucosal erosion that occurs in the esophagus ,  stomach or duodenum .
an ependymoma that arises from the infratentorial region of the brain and occurs during childhood .
an ependymoma that arises from the supratentorial region of the brain and occurs during childhood .
an adenoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the small intestine .
a neuroendocrine tumor that arises from the small intestine and produces glucagon - like peptides .
a benign breast neoplasm characterized by the proliferation of multiple papillomas within the lumen of the ducts .
a benign or malignant epithelial neoplasm of probable wolffian origin .
a meningioma that arises from the meninges of the lumbar region of the spinal cord .
a mixed germ cell tumor that arises from the central nervous system and occurs during childhood .
a sexual disorder in which a woman fails to achieve orgasm during sexual intercourse .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the endocervix .
penetration of a peptic ulcer through the wall of duodenum or stomach allowing the leakage of luminal contents into the peritoneal cavity .
a neoplastic process characterized by the proliferation of spindle to cuboidal myoepithelial cells around small breast ducts .
a multifocal neoplastic process characterized by the proliferation of spindle to cuboidal myoepithelial cells within and / or around small breast ducts .
an embryonal tumor with multilayered rosettes ,  c19mc - altered that arises from the infratentorial region and occurs in children .
an acute ,  usually bacterial infection affecting the endometrium .
an anal adenocarcinoma arising from the epithelium of the anal glands .
a benign squamous neoplasm characterized by a papillary growth pattern ,  diffusely involving a specific anatomic site .
a benign ,  well circumscribed neoplasm that is located within the lumen of a duct in the breast parenchyma .
a tubular type adenoma of the breast in which ,  during pregnancy and lactation ,  the epithelial cells show extensive secretory changes .
a tuberculosis that involves the urinary bladder .
a rare ,  benign and well circumscribed neoplasm that arises from the breast .
an invasive breast carcinoma characterized by the presence of a mesenchymal cellular component .
a sarcomatous transformation of pre - existing paget disease of the bone .
a benign epithelial neoplasm derived from ceruminous glands in the external auditory canal .
a common sexually transmitted bacterial infection caused by neisseria gonorrhoeae .
an invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder that exhibits spindle cell sarcomatoid features .
diseases of the ninth cranial  ( glossopharyngeal )  nerve or its nuclei in the medulla .
an eccrine porocarcinoma that arises from the sweat glands in the vulva .
a vulvar sweat gland carcinoma characterized by the presence of clear cells .
a malignant glandular neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas .
a usually slow - growing epithelial neoplasm with ductal differentiation that arises from the exocrine pancreas and grows mostly within the pancreatic ducts .
a pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of adenocarcinoma cells with foamy cytoplasm .
an infiltrating ductal breast carcinoma associated with stromal fibrosis .
an exophytic ,  slow growing ,  well differentiated and non - metastasizing squamous cell carcinoma with pushing margins that arises from the glottic area of the larynx .
an exophytic ,  slow growing ,  well differentiated and non - metastasizing squamous cell carcinoma with pushing margins that arises from the subglottic area of the larynx .
a squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx that arises from the subglottic area .
an exophytic ,  slow growing ,  well differentiated and non - metastasizing squamous cell carcinoma with pushing margins that arises from the supraglottic area of the larynx .
a squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx that arises from the supraglottic area .
a rare malignant trophoblastic tumor that arises from the ovary as a result of ectopic ovarian pregnancy .
a carcinoma arising in the lung due to exposure to asbestos .
a variant of cervical squamous cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of islands of cells with uniform ,  vesicular nuclei and prominent nucleoli and a dense lymphocytic infiltrate .
a rare ,  usually aggressive primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by a syncytial growth of undifferentiated carcinoma cells and the presence of a lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate .
a disease involving the stomach .
a conventional osteosarcoma characterized by the presence of spindle shaped cells .
a parathyroid gland adenoma composed predominantly of neoplastic chief cells .
a parathyroid gland adenoma composed predominantly of neoplastic cells with clear cytoplasm .
a parathyroid gland adenoma that contains a mixture of neoplastic cells  ( chief cells ,  oncocytes ,  and clear cells )  .
a parathyroid gland adenoma composed predominantly or entirely of neoplastic cells with abundant granular eosinophilic cytoplasm .
a high grade malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm that produces osteoid and occurs in childhood .
a rare condition characterized by diffuse spread of sarcoma cells throughout the meninges .
a rare sarcoma arising from the meninges .
the occurrence of several sarcomas in different anatomic locations .
an embryonal tumor with multilayered rosettes ,  c19mc - altered ,  occurring in adults .
a carcinoma that involves the bulbo - urethral gland .
a meningioma that affects the suprasellar region .
a meningioma that affects the trigeminal ganglion .
an intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that arises from the canals of hering .
a histologic variant of squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the skin .
multiple meningiomas that arises from the spinal meninges .
an aggressive small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma that arises from the ovary .
an undifferentiated small cell carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is associated with hypercalcemia .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the endometrium and is characterized by the presence of both type i and type ii endometrial adenocarcinoma components .
a malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the ovary and is composed of cytotrophoblasts ,  syncytiotrophoblasts ,  and extravillous trophoblasts .
the loss of muscle tissue due to inactivity or disease .
a benign neoplasm that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of fusiform cells and collagenization .
a rare benign tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of lipid - rich neoplastic spindle cells .
a benign neoplasm that arises from the ciliated respiratory mucosa that lines the sphenoid sinus .
a papilloma that arises from the ciliated respiratory mucosa that lines the sphenoid sinus .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the maxillary sinus .
a non - invasive pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that exhibit loss of polarity ,  nuclear stratification ,  hyperchromasia ,  and pleomorphism .
a sarcoma arising from the leptomeninges .
a adenocarcinoma that involves the urachus .
a malignant neoplasm involving the lung hilus .
a malignant ,  ectopic acth secreting pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor ,  associated with cushing's syndrome .
a low or intermediate grade well differentiated tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
a disease or disorder that involves the digestive system .
an infiltrating adenocarcinoma arising from the rectum .
paget disease involving the perianal skin .
a meningioma that affects the tuberculum sellae .
a carcinoma that arises from the pancreas showing a mixture of ductal and neuroendocrine malignant cells in both the primary tumor and in the metastatic sites .
an infiltrating pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of malignant cells floating in pools of mucin .
a cystic adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of relatively uniform neoplastic cells which produce pancreatic enzymes and are arranged in acinar patterns .
a malignant hemangiopericytoma occurring in childhood .
a malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor occurring in children .
an intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma characterized by the presence of signet ring adenocarcinoma cells .
a lymphoma that involves the retina .
retinoblastoma during childhood that has spread beyond the eye .
a lymphoma that arises within the eye .
an ependymoma of the brain occurring in adults .
a non - invasive ,  papillary epithelial neoplasm that arises from the epithelium of the extrahepatic bile ducts .
leukemia that occurs during the neonatal period .
an acute or chronic leukemia that occurs during childhood .
a cystic neoplasm which arises from the kidney and occurs in children .
a carcinoma of the larynx that arises from the supraglottic area .
a carcinoma of the larynx that arises from the subglottic area .
a disorder characterized by the presence of one or more nonbizarre delusions that persist for at least 1 month ;  the delusion ( s )  are not due to schizophrenia or a mood disorder ,  and do not impair psychosocial functioning apart from the ramifications of the delusion ( s )  .
an osteosarcoma arising from the breast tissue .
an ependymoma of the spinal cord occurring in adults .
a rare spinal tumor which is highly malignant and tends to be locally invasive of surrounding neural tissue .
a uveal melanoma characterized by the presence of tumor cell necrosis .
a mixed glioma characterized by the presence of astrocytic ,  ependymal ,  and oligodendroglial neoplastic components .
a meningioma that affects the petroclival region .
a meningioma that affects the sphenoorbital region .
a meningioma that affects the sphenocavernous region .
a clear cell meningioma arising in multiple areas of the spinal cord characterized by the presence of clear glycogen - rich polygonal cells .
a papillary meningioma occurring in adults .
an osteosarcoma arising from the soft tissue ,  and occurring in adults .
long - standing and persistent renal disease with glomerular filtration rate  ( gfr )  less than 15 ml / min .
an invasive ,  non - metastasizing neoplasm with sweat duct differentiation that arises in the area of the nipple .
a usually malignant neuroendocrine tumor arising from the delta cells of the pancreas .
an embryonal tumor with multilayered rosettes ,  c19mc - altered that arises from the cerebral hemispheres and occurs in children .
a carcinoma that arises from the breast in females .
a sarcoma that involves the dendritic cell .
a non - invasive pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that form a single layer and are well polarized .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the larynx .
a central nervous system germinoma that occurs in an adult .
a benign neoplasm that arises from the ciliated respiratory mucosa that lines the maxillary sinus .
a xanthogranuloma that occurs in an adult .
an adenomyoma that arises from the uterine corpus and is characterized by the presence of marked glandular architectural complexity .
a non - neoplastic and self - limited condition that occurs during pregnancy .
infestations with arthropods of the subclass acari ,  superorder acariformes .
abnormally low intraocular pressure often related to chronic inflammation  ( uveitis )  .
a extraosseous chondrosarcoma that occurs in an adult .
an extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma arising from the structures within the cranium .
a tumor of mixed cell type with astrocytic components as well as ependymoma components .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the mucosal epithelial surface of the maxillary sinus .
a meningioma that arises from the meninges of the cervical region of the spinal cord .
a schwannoma that arises from the posterior mediastinum .
a schwannoma that arises from the posterior mediastinum .
a type a thymoma which is characterized by an aggressive clinical course  ( capsular invasion ,  infiltration of the surrounding tissues )  and can metastasize .
malignant testicular germ cell tumor that is resistant to treatment .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of gland - like spaces ,  irregular alveoli ,  and tubular structures .
a t lymphoblastic leukemia / lymphoma that occurs during childhood .
t - lymphoblastic leukemia / lymphoma resistant to treatment
an adenocarcinoma arising from barrett metaplastic epithelium in the esophagus .
a mixed germ cell tumor of central nervous system that occurs in an adult .
a neuroblastic tumor characterized by the presence of a ganglioneuroblastoma component and the formation of schwannian stroma which is the predominant component of the tumor volume .
a neuroblastic tumor characterized by the presence of a ganglioneuroblastoma component and the formation of schwannian stroma which constitutes more than fifty - percent of the tumor volume .
a carcinoma that develops in the ducts of the nipple .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the penis and is characterized by the presence of malignant spindle - shaped cells .
a gastrin - producing neuroendocrine tumor that arises from the duodenum .
a very rare ,  aggressive carcinoma of the sweat glands arising from malignant transformation of a long standing spiradenoma .
a variant of cervical squamous cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of polygonal squamous cells .
a spectrum of endometrial abnormalities that occur in women who use tamoxifen to treat or prevent the development of breast cancer .
a rare tumor characterized by malignant transformation of an eccrine spiradenoma of the breast .
a breast papilloma characterized by the presence of predominant sclerosing architectural features .
a meningioma that affects the falx cerebri .
an osteosarcoma arising from the brain or spinal cord .
a familial glomus tumor .
overactivity of the thyroid gland resulting in overproduction of thyroid hormone and increased metabolic rate .
a meningioma that affects the frontal sulcus .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the supraglottic area of the larynx .
a benign ,  well circumscribed lung neoplasm morphologically characterized by the presence of cystic spaces resembling alveoli ,  lined by a simple cuboidal epithelium .
a meningioma  ( disease )  that involves the zone of skin .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the penis and is characterized by a mixture of morphologic patterns  ( e .g . ,  high grade squamous cell carcinoma and verrucous carcinoma or warty - basaloid carcinoma )  .
bleeding into the joints .it may arise from trauma or spontaneously in patients with hemophilia .
a benign teratoma that arises from the pericardium .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the penis and is characterized by the presence of a papillary growth pattern .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the liver .
a liposarcoma that arises from the ovary and is composed of round to oval mesenchymal cells ,  small signet ring lipoblasts ,  and a rich network of capillaries in a myxoid stroma .
a carcinoma that arises from the breast and is not caused by inherited genetic mutations .
a meningioma that affects the periocular region .
a meningioma that affects the pineal gland .
an embryonal carcinoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children .
a rare malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of embryoid bodies .
a parachordoma arising from the chest wall .
a rare morphologic variant of bladder carcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells and clear cells forming a tubulo - cystic pattern .
a rare morphologic variant of bladder adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells and clear cells forming a papillary pattern .
a meningioma that affects the olfactory sulcus .
a meningioma that affects the pituitary stalk .
a benign neoplasm that arises from the ciliated respiratory mucosa that lines the frontal sinus .
a neoplastic process characterized by the proliferation of spindle to cuboidal myoepithelial cells within small breast ducts .
a occlusion precerebral artery that involves the carotid artery segment .
a rare ,  aggressive variant of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma .
a germinoma arising from the central nervous system during childhood .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of myxomatous tissue that contains collections of malignant cells with prominent nucleoli .
a congenital mesoblastic nephroma characterized by increased cellularity ,  sheet - like proliferation of fibroblastic cells ,  and increased mitotic activity .
a congenital mesoblastic nephroma characterized by the presence of interlacing fascicles of fibroblastic cells ,  low mitotic activity ,  and collagen formation .
disorders related or resulting from use of cocaine .
a papilloma that arises from the ciliated respiratory mucosa that lines the maxillary sinus .
a hepatoid adenocarcinoma that involves the urinary bladder .
a thyroid gland adenoma composed of microfollicular structures .
an adenoma that arises from the vagina and is characterized by a tubulovillous architectural pattern .
a mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
primary myelofibrosis characterized by bone marrow hypercellularity and the presence of atypical megakaryocytes .
a metaplastic lesion of the urothelium found in the urethra .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the periampullary region .
a benign teratoma that arises from the stomach .
paget disease involving the squamous epithelium of the anal canal .
the inflammation of one or more joints caused by a bacterial infection within the joint space .
an invasive breast adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of tall columnar neoplastic cells that contain intracytoplasmic mucin .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the epiglottis .
a lymphoma that arises from the gallbladder ,  with the bulk of the tumor located at this site .
a rare ,  usually aggressive ,  primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of carcinoma cells with clear cytoplasm .
a rare ,  usually aggressive ,  primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of tumor cells morphologically resembling soft tissue sarcoma .
a ganglioneuroblastoma arising from the adrenal gland .
a recently recognized variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia / small lymphocytic lymphoma  ( cll / sll )  that lacks somatic hypermutations of the immunoglobulin heavy chain  ( igh )  genes ,  implying pregerminal center b - cell origin .
a malignant germ cell tumor that occurs during childhood .
a pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm characterized by the presence of a focal or multifocal invasive carcinomatous component .
a non - neoplastic soft tissue disorder characterized by the localized formation of reactive fibrous and bone tissues .
a thyroid gland adenoma composed of large cells with abundant granular eosinophilic cytoplasm and large nuclei with prominent nucleoli .
a melanoma that arises from the gallbladder .
inflammation of the heart characterized by infiltration of the interstitial tissues by inflammatory cells ,  histiocytes ,  and the formation of granulomas .
an adenomyoma that arises from the cervix and is characterized by the presence of endocervical mucinous glands and a smooth muscle cell component .
an adenomyoma that arises from the cervix and is characterized by the presence of endometrial type glands and endometrial stroma ,  surrounded by smooth muscle .
an adenomyoma that arises from the cervix and is characterized by the presence of a glandular component exhibiting architectural complexity .
a malignant trophoblastic tumor that arises from the fallopian tube during pregnancy .
a gestational choriocarcinoma that involves the body of uterus .
an aggressive malignant tumor arising from trophoblastic cells in the uterus during pregnancy .
an inflammatory process affecting the mediastinum .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of numerous papillary structures that are lined by cells with prominent nucleoli .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of hepatoid cells collections .
a cataract occurring as a sequela of myotonic dystrophy .
myocarditis is a condition that is characterized by inflammation of the heart muscle  ( myocardium )  .
a stage of syphilis that occurs fifteen to thirty years after the initial infection ;  it can include gumma formation and cardiovascular or central nervous system involvement  ( neurosyphilis )  .
a meningioma that arises from the meninges of the sacral region of the spinal cord .
a lung carcinoma arising from the hilum of the lung .
a carcinoma originating from the apical lung .
a rare ,  benign ,  asymptomatic neoplasm that arises from the fallopian tube .
a meningioma that affects the upper clivus .
a urethra cancer that involves the penis .
a benign papillary neoplasm that arises in a large duct of the breast .
a benign papillary neoplasm that arises in a terminal ductal lobular unit .
an intraductal papilloma of the breast characterized by the presence of focal epithelial atypia .
inflammation of the periapical tissue .
a non - invasive ,  papillary epithelial neoplasm that arises from the epithelium of the intrahepatic bile ducts .
a rare morphologic variant of well differentiated liposarcoma occurring most often in the retroperitoneum .
a meningioma that affects the lower clivus .
a meningeal melanoma with secondary diffuse meningeal spread .
an aggressive rhabdomyosarcoma occurring in adults .
chronic inflammation of the nasal cavity mucosa .
a tuberculosis that involves the ureter .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the portion of the urethra that is close to the outside of the body .
a rare hemangioma arising from synovium lining surfaces .
stage 0 includes: ptis ,  n0 ,  m0 ,  s0 .
an epithelioid sarcoma occurring in adults .
inflammation of the peritoneum due to infection by bacteria or fungi .
a squamous cell carcinoma of the skin with a prominent clear cell component .
a thyroid gland adenoma with increased cellularity and nuclear atypia .
a contagious skin infection that is caused by the burrowing parasitic mite ,  sarcoptes scabiei ,  and is characterized by intense itching and small ,  raised red spots in the area of the mite burrows .
a benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm of the uterine corpus .
an instance of granular cell tumor that is present from birth .
a myofibroblastoma arising from the inguinal lymph nodes .
a rare soft tissue tumor of uncertain lineage characterized by the presence of neoplastic spindle to round cells forming cords in a fibromyxoid stroma .
a cervical adenocarcinoma with minimal stromal invasion .
breast adenosis characterized by the proliferation of acini ,  a lobulated architectural pattern ,  and stromal sclerosis .
a malignant neoplasm involving the auditory system
a hemangioma arising from perineural tissues .
a rare variant of breast adenosis characterized by the proliferation of small round glands in a collagenous stroma .
a non - gestational choriocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children .
a cervical mucinous adenocarcinoma that resembles the large intestinal adenocarcinoma .
a cervical mucinous adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells that resemble those of the endocervix .
a cancer that involves the aorta .
a rare variant of malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor composed predominantly or exclusively of epithelioid cells .
a morphologic variant of testicular seminoma characterized by the presence of seminoma cells arranged in pseudoglandular patterns and few lymphocytes .
a poorly differentiated variant of adenosquamous carcinoma that arises from the cervix .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of immature glands .
a who grade ii ,  usually recurring meningioma characterized by the predominance of tissues that are histologically similar to chordoma .
a malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor occurring during adulthood .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the lumbar nerve plexus .
a yolk sac tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of a meshwork of small vacuolated cells resulting in a honeycomb appearance .
a rare sex cord - stromal tumor that arises from the testis in adults .
an extrinsic allergic alveolitis caused by inhalation of cork dust containing the antigens produced by the fungus penicillium glabrum .
a melanoma within the cornea of the eye .
inflammation of a congenital diverticulum of the lower intestine .
a cervical squamous cell carcinoma with minimal stromal invasion .
an inflammatory interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reaction to inhalation or ingestion of antigens .
an angiomyolipoma occurring in childhood .
an angiomyolipoma arising from the kidney .
a rare squamous cell carcinoma that either arises from or is associated with the presence of inverted papilloma in the nose .
a fibrosarcoma that occurs in infants .
a thyroid gland adenoma composed of large size follicles .
a variant of malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor characterized by the presence of glandular epithelium .
a melanoma affecting the retinal portion of the eye .
a ductal breast carcinoma in situ ,  characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells with apocrine differentiation .
polycythemia that is not pathologic .
an anatomic abnormality of the thyroid gland .
blockage of the normal flow of the intestinal contents within the bowel .
sequelae of gastrectomy from the second week after operation on .
decrease in peristalsis in the absence of a mechanical bowel obstruction .
an ileus caused by abdominal or pelvic surgery ,  infections ,  disorders that affect the muscles and nerves ,  and medications .
twisting of a loop of bowel that results in intestinal obstruction .
an affective disorder characterized by periods of depression and hypomania .
a dietary deficiency of riboflavin causing a syndrome chiefly marked by cheilitis ,  angular stomatitis ,  glossitis associated with a purplish red or magenta - colored tongue that may show fissures ,  corneal vascularization ,  dyssebacia ,  and anemia .
deficiency of vitamin b6 .it is usually caused by alcoholism ,  malabsorption ,  or as a side effect of medications .
a condition produced by a deficiency of choline in animals .
area of epithelial tissue loss from corneal surface ;  associated with inflammatory cells in the cornea and anterior chamber .
an inherited or acquired disorder characterized by splitting of the retina into two layers .
degeneration of the retina .
inflammation of the myocardium in acute rheumatic heart disease .
a partial ,  temporary occlusion of the retinal artery .
an excess quantity of amniotic fluid in the amniotic sac as compared to normal values .
rheumatoid lung disease is a group of lung problems related to rheumatoid arthritis .
an instance of night blindness that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
inability to see clearly in dim light .
an impetigo that is characterized as a form of severe pustular psoriasis occurring in pregnancy .
a contagious bacterial cutaneous infection that affects children and is usually caused by staphylococcus aureus .
distension of the bartholin gland duct caused by an accumulation of mucus in the duct ,  usually as a result of obstruction of the gland duct orifice .
hypertrophy and dilation of the right ventricle of the heart that is caused by pulmonary hypertension .
localized necrosis of lung tissue caused by obstruction of the arterial blood supply ,  most often due to pulmonary embolism .
acute form of cor pulmonale .
a substance abuse that involves the recurring use of barbiturate drugs despite negative consequences .
ulcer of lower limbs is a chronic ulcer of skin where the ulcer is not a decubitus ulcer .
a subtype of classical hodgkin lymphoma with scattered hodgkin and reed - sternberg cells and a nodular or less often diffuse cellular background consisting of small lymphocytes and with an absence of neutrophils and eosinophils .
a cancer involving a epiglottic vallecula .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the oropharynx .
a group of acute infections caused by herpes simplex virus type 1 or type 2 that is characterized by the development of one or more small fluid - filled vesicles with a raised erythematous base on the skin or mucous membrane .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the soft palate .
distinctive neoplastic disorders of histiocytes .
ischemia of the intestine that is rapid in onset .
form of leukemia characterized by an uncontrolled proliferation of the myeloid lineage and their precursors  ( myeloid progenitor cells )  in the bone marrow and other sites .
a cancer involving a gingiva of upper jaw .
a painful blister of the periungual skin that is caused by herpes simplex virus type 1 or 2 .
disorders characterized by hypersomnolence during normal waking hours that may impair cognitive functioning .
a highly contagious viral infection caused by the measles virus .
a diffuse subtype of classical hodgkin lymphoma which is rich in hodgkin and reed - sternberg cells and / or depleted in non - neoplastic lymphocytes .
a malignant neoplasm involving the upper lip .
a malignant neoplasm involving the palatine uvula .
inflammation of a vein .
acute or chronic inflammation of the duodenum .
a malignant neoplasm affecting the tongue .
an obsolete term referring to hodgkin lymphoma .
a subtype of classical hodgkin lymphoma with scattered reed - sternberg and hodgkin cells in a diffuse or vaguely nodular mixed inflammatory background without nodular sclerosing fibrosis .
a disease involving the vein .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the postcricoid region .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the lip .
a malignant neoplasm involving the aryepiglottic fold .
an antiquated term that refers to a non - hodgkin lymphoma composed of small and medium sized lymphocytes .
a fulminating disease of neonates in which there is extensive mucosal ulceration ,  pseudomembrane formation ,  submucosal hemorrhage ,  and necrosis usually of the right colon ,  cecum ,  terminal ileum ,  and appendix ,  possibly due to perinatal intestinal ischemia and bacterial invasion .
inflammation of the stomach resulting from alcohol ingestion .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the zone of skin .
a cancer that involves the tonsillar pillar .
a clonal proliferation of myeloid cells and their precursors in the bone marrow ,  peripheral blood ,  and spleen .
a malignant neoplasm involving the buccal mucosa .
death of tissue due to external pressure .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm which is confined to the epithelial layer without evidence of further tissue invasion .
a degenerative vascular disorder affecting the brain .
a pneumonia caused by anaerobic bacteria .
a carotid body paraganglioma that metastasizes to other anatomic sites .
a condition that is caused by infection with variola ,  and that is characterized by small ,  raised bumps .
acute infection of the lung parenchyma caused by bacteria  ( e .g . ,  streptococcus pneumoniae ,  haemophilus influenzae ,  chlamydia pneumoniae ,  mycoplasma pneumoniae ,  and legionella pneumophila )  .
a myelodysplastic / myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by the principal involvement of the neutrophil series with leukocytosis and multilineage dysplasia .
a viral infection caused by the rubella virus .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the breast .
a carcinoma in situ involving a eye .
a carcinoma in situ involving a lung .
a carcinoma that arises from the tracheal mucosa and is confined to the epithelial layer without evidence of further tissue invasion .
an infection that is caused by the intestinal fluke heterophyes heterophyes ,  which is most commonly found in asia ,  the middle east ,  and africa ,  and which is transmitted via consumption of contaminated raw or undercooked fish .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the colon .
a parasitic infection characterized by the infestation with worms ,  mainly in the intestine .
a subtype of classical hodgkin lymphoma characterized by collagen bands that surround at least one nodule ,  and hodgkin and reed - sternberg cells with lacunar type morphology .
an infection that is most commonly caused by the intestinal fluke metagonimus yokogawai ,  which is most commonly found in the far east ,  and which is transmitted via consumption of contaminated raw or undercooked fish .
a rare malignant neoplasm that arises from the sublingual gland .
a parasitic infection that is caused by liver flukes ,  usually fasciola hepatica ,  of sheep ,  goats ,  and cattle .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the major or minor salivary glands .
an autoimmune ,  connective tissue chronic inflammatory disorder affecting the skin ,  joints ,  kidneys ,  lungs ,  heart ,  and the peripheral blood cells .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the penis .
a small bowel infection that is caused by fasciolopsis buski ,  which is endemic in the far east and southeast asia ,  and which is transmitted via the consumption of raw or undercooked aquatic plants .
a malignant neoplasm involving the lower lip .
inflammation of the distal posterior uveal tract  ( choroid )  and its structural and vascular attachments to the retina .
a heterogenous group of disorders characterized by alterations of mitochondrial metabolism that result in muscle and nervous system dysfunction .
a superficial mycosis that is a superficial fungal infection of the skin characterized by brown to black macules which usually occur on the palmar aspects of hands and occasionally the plantar and other surfaces of the skin ,  caused by hortaea werneckii ,  which is a common saprophytic fungus believed to occur in soil ,  compost ,  humus and on wood in humid tropical and sub - tropical regions .
a common fungal infection of the stratum corneum of the skin ,  hair ,  or nails by a dermatophyte .
leukoplakia of the vagina .
a group of disorders that affect a person's ability to learn or process specific types of information which is in contrast to his / her apparent level of intellect .
a malignant form of neoplasm of retromolar area .
a superficial fibromatosis arising from soft tissue of the plantar regions .
a malignant neoplasm involving the tonsillar ring .
an inherited metabolic disorder that involves metabolic disturbances in the processing or distribution of dietary minerals .
a cancer involving a tonsillar fossa .
autosomal dominant form of polycystic kidney disease .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm confined to the squamous epithelium ,  without invasion of the underlying tissues .
hepatopulmonary syndrome  ( hps )  is a lung disease characterized by widening of arteries and veins  ( dilatation )  in the lungs in people who have chronic liver disease .
a rare lymphoma that arises from the liver and the bulk of the tumor is located in the liver .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the larynx .
a rare condition that usually affects the middle - to - distal esophagus in middle - aged and elderly people .
a carcinoma in situ involving a intestine .
a non - hodgkin or hodgkin lymphoma that arises from any part of the digestive system ,  with the bulk of the disease localized to that site .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the parotid gland .
a benign protruding lesion arising either from the endometrial cavity  ( endometrial polyp )  or the endocervix  ( endocervical polyp )  .
the presence of whitish patches on the mucosal surface of the cervix .
also known as carcinoma in situ of the urinary bladder or high grade intraurothelial neoplasia ,  this is a flat lesion of the transitional cell epithelium characterized by severe cytologic atypia .
a solitary fibrous tumor that arises from the liver .
a carcinoma in situ involving a anal canal .
stage 0 includes: for squamous cell carcinoma: tis  ( hgd )  ,  n0 ,  m0 ,  g1 ,  gx ,  tumor location: any .
a neoplasm involving a occipital lobe .
a carcinoma in situ involving a uterus .
localized rash characterized by grouped vesicles or pustules on an erythematous base that is caused by herpes simplex virus infection .
a cancer involving a gingiva of lower jaw .
a group of primary or secondary disorders affecting the muscles .
a carcinoma in situ involving a liver .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the stomach .
a vascular disease of the liver characterized by the occurrence of multiple blood - filled cysts or cavities .
a malignant neoplasm involving the hard palate .
a orthopoxvirus that causes a milder clinical syndrome than smallpox .
a benign or malignant epithelial neoplasm that affects the liver parenchyma and intrahepatic bile ducts .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the liver .
a malignant neoplasm involving the submandibular gland .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the rectum .
a multinodular intermediate fibroblastic neoplasm arising from the liver .
a cancer that involves the oral opening .
disorders affecting the motor function of the upper esophageal sphincter ;  lower esophageal sphincter ;  the esophagus body ,  or a combination of these parts .
a term referring to disorders characterized by the disruption of normal speech .
a broad classification of disorders which includes 6 subtypes  ( primary central sleep apnea ,  central sleep apnea due to cheyne - stokes breathing pattern ,  central sleep apnea due to medical condition not cheyne - stokes ,  central sleep apnea due to high - altitude periodic breathing ,  central sleep apnea due to drug or substance and primary sleep apnea of infancy )  that are each characterized by interruptions in breathing while asleep .
a carcinoma in situ involving a kidney .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the pyriform sinus .
an inherited disorder that affects the metabolism of the amino acids .
an autosomal recessive inherited metabolic disorder caused by mutations in the cbs ,  mthfr ,  mtr ,  and mtrr genes .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of histidine metabolic process .
a genetic inborn error of metabolism characterized by the deficiency of one of the enzymes necessary for the urea cycle .
an autosomal recessive inherited metabolic disorder caused by mutations in the fah ,  hpd ,  and tat genes .
a heterogenous group of degenerative syndromes marked by progressive cerebellar dysfunction either in isolation or combined with other neurologic manifestations .
a serious metabolic condition caused by mutations in the mthfr gene ,  medications ,  or nutritional deficiency .
persistent and usually painful erection that lasts for at least four hours in the absence of physical or psychological stimulation ,  which can be caused by hematologic disorders ,  including sickle cell disease and leukemia ,  spinal cord injuries ,  and medications .
a myopathy that involves the extra - ocular muscle .
a congenital abnormality consisting of one or more clefts  ( splits )  in the upper lip ,  which may be accompanied by a cleft palate ;  it is the result of the failure of the embryonic parts of the lip to fuse .
a disease involving the lip .
a malignant neoplasm involving the myocardium .
a category of disorders characterized by an impairment in the development of an individual's language capabilities ,  which is in contrast to his / her non - verbal intellect .
diseases of the bony orbit and contents except the eyeball .
a rare neurofibroma that affects the heart .
protrusion of the rectum through the anus .
infection of ruminants with tapeworms of the genus moniezia .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the nasal cavity .
inflammation of the ethmoid sinus that typically lasts beyond eight weeks .
a localized defect in the visual field bordered by an area of normal vision .
spontaneous or traumatic separation of the layers of the carotid artery wall .
an asthma that is triggered by factors not related to allergies such as anxiety ,  stress ,  exercise ,  cold air ,  dry air ,  hyperventilation ,  smoke ,  viruses ,  chemical irritants ,  autonomic imbalance ,  hormonal deficiencies and psychogenic influences .
an acute exacerbation of asthma ,  characterized by inadequate response to initial bronchodilators .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the seminal vesicle .
inflammation of both the cornea and the conjunctiva .
a nonspecific tumor - like inflammatory lesion in the orbit of the eye .
the anterior displacement of the eye within the orbit ,  giving a bulging appearance .
a syndrome that is a chronic unilateral  ( or rarely bilateral )  iridocyclitis appearing with the triad of heterochromia ,  predisposition to cataracts and glaucoma ,  and keratitic percipitates on the posterior corneal surface .
an inflammation of the iris and the ciliary body
an iridocyclitis  ( disease )  caused by infection with neisseria gonorrhoeae .
an acute inflammatory process affecting the larynx .
a disorder involving inflammation of the epididymis and testes .
inflammation of the epididymis .its clinical features include enlarged epididymis ,  a swollen scrotum ;  pain ;  pyuria ;  and fever .
necrosis of the myocardium ,  as a result of interruption of the blood supply to the area .
a disorder characterized by excretion of large amounts of urine ,  accompanied by excessive thirst .
a asthma with a basis in a pathological type i hypersensitivity reaction .
inflammation of the eyelids near the eyelashes .
cholangitis that is persistent and long - standing .
a rare ,  benign ,  papillary neoplasm that arises from the cervix .
a papilloma that arises from the squamous epithelium of the cervix .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the biliary tract .
a reversible condition wherein large vacuoles of triglyceride fat accumulate in liver cells via the process of steatosis .
a cancer that involves the uberon:0016632 .
inflammation of the anatomical structures of the outer ear and ear canal secondary to an infectious process .
inflammation of the meninges of the brain and / or spinal cord caused by an infectious agent  ( viral ,  bacterial ,  or fungal )  .
a mononeuritis simplex that involves the hindlimb .
chronic form of dacryoadenitis .
a condition characterized by infiltration of the lung with eosinophils due to inflammation or other disease processes .
inflammation and enlargement of the lacrimal gland .
a disease involving leukocytes .
chronic inflammatory disorder of the lungs characterized by the presence of eosinophils in the interalveolar septa and alveolar spaces and peripheral blood eosinophilia .
acute form of ethmoid sinusitis .
acute form of dacryoadenitis .
a pneumothorax in which air enters into the pleural cavity .
a plasma cell neoplasm associated with osteosclerotic and fibrotic changes in the bone trabeculae .
a plasma cell neoplasm that is resistant to treatment .
a rare type of multiple myeloma in which the plasma cells synthesize but do not secrete immunoglobulins .
a benign ,  usually encapsulated slow growing tumor of the peripheral nervous system composed of schwann cells .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the nasopharynx .
segmental ,  irreversible dilation of the bronchial tree resulting in the accumulation of secretions which leads to obstruction .
a fungal infection by any of the candida species in a newborn infant up to 28 days old .
a concretion in the urethra .
a rare neoplasm arising from the distal third of the esophagus .
a urolithiasis that involves the lower urinary tract .
metastatic signet - ring cell carcinoma to the ovary .
inflammation process in fascia .
a rapidly growing ,  poorly circumscribed ,  mass - forming proliferation that arises from the subcutaneous tissues .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the lower part of the esophagus .
inflammation of the thick tissue on the bottom of the foot  ( plantar fascia )  causing heel pain .
a reactive ,  painless lesion which is characterized by a pseudosarcomatous proliferation of fibroblasts and myofibroblasts usually in the deep subcutaneous tissue .
necrotizing fasciitis is a serious infection of the skin ,  the tissue just beneath the skin  ( subcutaneous tissue )  ,  and the tissue that covers internal organs  ( fascia )  .
a rare self - limiting ,  rapidly growing ,  non - encapsulated benign neoplasm that arises from the vessels .
a non - metastasizing encapsulated neoplasm arising from nerves in the esophagus .
global enlargement of the renal parenchyma in one or both kidneys .
inflammation of the oral mucosa due to local or systemic factors .
involuntary movements of the eyeballs .
a white patch or plaque on the oral mucosa that cannot be characterized clinically or pathologically as any other disease .
a recurrent disease of the oral mucosa of unknown etiology .
vaginal bleeding preceding the 20th week of gestation .
a cataract with no obvious cause occurring in persons over 50 years old .
inflammation of the mouth mucosa associated with the presence of ulcers .
a subcategory of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease  ( copd )  .
inflammation of the conjunctiva in a newborn due to chemical or infectious causes .
inflammation of the synovial lining of a tendon sheath .
inflammation of a tendon ,  usually resulting from an overuse injury .
blockage of the normal flow of the contents of the gallbladder .
a disease involving the vitreous humor .
a blue drum syndrome caused by an allergen .
a acute transudative otitis media involving thick ,  viscid and mucuslike fluid effusion due to which the drum appears blue in color .
a disease involving the pharyngotympanic tube .
a disease involving the upper respiratory tract .
a disease involving the biliary tree .
a varicose disease that involves the pelvic region of trunk .
dilated veins in the anal canal .
a hemorrhoid which originates above the dentate line .
cholecystitis that is characterized by nodules containing lipid .
prolonged dysfunction of the myocardium after a brief episode of severe ischemia ,  with gradual return of contractile activity .
any disease in which the causes of the disease is a perturbation of the lower digestive tract leading to its dysfunction .
a form of myositis that is characterized by the formation of connective tissue within the muscle .
a angioid streaks that involves the optic choroid .
a neurodegenerative disease that involves the eye .
a neurodegenerative disease that involves the optic choroid .
a refractive error in which rays of light entering the eye parallel to the optic axis are brought to a focus behind the retina ,  as a result of the eyeball being too short from front to back .
a defect in the focusing of light on the retina as in astigmatism ,  myopia ,  or hyperopia .
vertical strabismus in which there is permanent upward deviation of the visual axis of one eye .
a form of strabismus in which one or both eyes are deviated medially .
vertical strabismus in which there is permanent downward deviation of the visual axis of one eye .
syndromes which feature dyskinesias as a cardinal manifestation of the disease process .
inherited or acquired disorders of sugar metabolism .
hair loss usually from the scalp .
a fairly common and often benign valvular heart disorder characterized by redundancy or hooding of mitral valve leaflets so that they prolapse into the left atrium ,  often causing mitral regurgitation .
a tertiary syphilis that is manifested as aneurysm formation in the ascending aorta ,  caused by chronic inflammatory destruction of the vasa vasorum ,  insufficiency of the aortic valve ,  or narrowing of the coronary arteries .
a syndromic disease that involves the median arcuate ligament .
a hordeolum that results from infection of a meibomian gland .
a disorder characterized by an impairment in the development of an individual's motor coordination skills ;  this impairment in motor development is not due to a medical condition .
chronic form of actinomycosis .
chronic form of dacryocystitis .
inflammation of the lacrimal sac .
a congenital or acquired mucocele that develops in the lacrimal sac .
any disorder of the lymph nodes .
hypoplastic left heart syndrome  ( hlhs )  refers to the abnormal development of the left - sided cardiac structures ,  resulting in obstruction to blood flow from the left ventricular outflow tract .
inflammation of the periosteum .the condition is generally chronic ,  and is marked by tenderness and swelling of the bone and an aching pain .
a complication of obstetric labor in which the corpus of the uterus is forced completely or partially through the uterine cervix .
the psychological or physiological need to take a substance in oder to experience its effects or to avoid the effects of its absence .
a drug dependence for a hallucinogenic substance .
a complex systemic syndrome with inflammatory and autoimmune components that affect the skin ,  fascia ,  muscle ,  nerve ,  blood vessels ,  lung ,  and heart .
a lymphoma that arises from the structures of the orbit .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the structures of the orbit .
infection of the brain or spinal cord by treponema pallidum .
abnormally low level of glucose in the blood .
a neoplasm of lymphoblasts committed to the b - cell lineage ,  typically composed of small to medium - sized blast cells .
b - cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia  ( b - cll )  is a type of b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma ,  and the most common form of leukemia in western countries ,  affecting elderly adults  ( mean age of 67 and 72 years )  with a slight male predominance  ( 1 .7:1 )  ,  and characterized by a highly variable clinical presentation that can include asymptomatic disease or non - specific b - symptoms such as unintentional weight loss ,  severe fatigue ,  fever  ( without evidence of infection )  ,  and night sweats as well as cervical lymphadenopathy ,  splenomegaly and frequent infections .
a neoplasm of follicle centre b cells which has at least a partial follicular pattern .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the stomach .
the type species of lentivirus and the etiologic agent of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome  ( aids )  .
hodgkin lymphoma  ( hl )  is a heterogeneous group of malignant lymphoid neoplasms of b - cell origin characterized histologically by the presence of hodgkin and reed - sternberg  ( hrs )  cells in the vast majority of cases .
the most common type of invasive breast carcinoma ,  accounting for approximately 70% of breast carcinomas .
a combination of medical conditions that ,  when present ,  increase the risk of heart attack ,  stroke ,  and diabetes mellitus .
a carcinoma that arises from the prostate gland and has spread to other anatomic sites .
an invasive adenocarcinoma composed of malignant glandular cells which contain intracytoplasmic mucin .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the oral cavity .
a clonal proliferation of immunoglobulin - secreting plasma cells .
a condition characterized by the abnormal presence of monoclonal immunoglobulins in the blood or urine .
endometrial cancer is a cancer that arises from the endometrium  ( the lining of the uterus or womb )  .it is the result of the abnormal growth of cells that have the ability to invade or spread to other parts of the body .
endometrial carcinoma is a carcinoma that arises from the endometrium  ( the lining of the uterus or womb )  .
acute lymphoblastic leukemia of t - cell origin .
aggressive nodal or extranodal mature  ( peripheral )  t - cell lymphomas that do not belong to the better defined entities of the remainder of mature t - cell lymphomas .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the acinar cell
inflammation of the stomach .
leukemia with an acute onset ,  characterized by the presence of lymphoblasts in the bone marrow and the peripheral blood .
acute quadriplegic myopathy  ( aqm )  is a specific acquired myopathy in icu patients .
a common cancer characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells .
a malignant tumor arising from the epithelial cells .
a neoplasm arising from the epithelium .
an aggressive carcinoma with a poor prognosis characterized by a presence of both malignant squamous cells and glandular cells .
a benign or malignant neuroendocrine neoplasm of the sympathetic nervous system that secretes catecholamines .
a progressive ,  neurodegenerative disease characterized by loss of function and death of nerve cells in several areas of the brain leading to loss of cognitive function such as memory and language .
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis  ( als )  is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive muscular paralysis reflecting degeneration of motor neurons in the primary motor cortex ,  corticospinal tracts ,  brainstem and spinal cord .
a mature t - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma ,  characterized by systemic disease and a polymorphous infiltrate involving lymph nodes and extranodal sites .
in the same amount or manner ;  to the same degree ;  in the role ,  function ,  or capacity of .
a bronchial disease that is characterized by chronic inflammation and narrowing of the airways ,  which is caused by a combination of environmental and genetic factors resulting in recurring periods of wheezing  ( a whistling sound while breathing )  ,  chest tightness ,  shortness of breath ,  mucus production and coughing .
a chronic inflammatory genetically determined disease of the skin marked by increased ability to form reagin  ( ige )  ,  with increased susceptibility to allergic rhinitis and asthma ,  and hereditary disposition to a lowered threshold for pruritus .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of a supraventricular arrhythmia characterized by the replacement of consistent p waves by rapid oscillations or fibrillatory waves that vary in size ,  shape and timing and are accompanied by an irregular ventricular response .
inflammation of the pancreas .
complete absence of spermatozoa in the semen .
a biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by high expression of genes characteristic of basal epithelial cells ,  including krt5 and krt17 ,  annexin 8 ,  cx3cl1 ,  and trim29 ,  and usually by lack of expression of the estrogen receptor  ( er )  ,  progesterone receptor  ( pr )  ,  and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2  ( her2 )  .
a disorder of the brain that causes unusual shifts in mood ,  energy ,  activity levels and the ability to carry out day - to - day tasks .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the urinary bladder
a benign or malignant ,  primary or metastatic neoplasm of the bladder .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the breast
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the breast
subsets of breast carcinoma defined by expression of genes characteristic of luminal epithelial cells .
a solitary adenocarcinoma arising from the lung measuring 3 cm or less .
a tumor composed of atypical neoplastic ,  often pleomorphic cells that invade other tissues .
a malignant tumor arising from epithelial cells .
a disease of the heart muscle or myocardium proper .
a disease involving the cardiovascular system .
acute myeloid leukemia occurring in childhood .
a benign ,  chondroid - producing ,  well - circumscribed ,  lytic neoplasm usually arising from the epiphysis of long bones .
inflammation of the stomach that is chronic in nature .
a chronic and progressive lung disorder characterized by the loss of elasticity of the bronchial tree and the air sacs ,  destruction of the air sacs wall ,  thickening of the bronchial wall ,  and mucous accumulation in the bronchial tree .
a chronic inflammatory process causing damage and fibrosis of the pancreatic parenchyma .
a malignant neoplasm composed of glandular epithelial clear cells .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm of the kidney characterized by the presence of lipid - containing clear cells within a vascular network .
a rare pediatric sarcoma affecting the kidney .
an invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon characterized by the presence of pools of extracellular mucin .
the most common type of colorectal carcinoma .
failure of the heart to pump a sufficient amount of blood to meet the needs of the body tissues ,  resulting in tissue congestion and edema .
narrowing of the coronary arteries due to fatty deposits inside the arterial walls .
a gastrointestinal disorder characterized by chronic inflammation involving all layers of the intestinal wall ,  noncaseating granulomas affecting the intestinal wall and regional lymph nodes ,  and transmural fibrosis .
a primary melanoma arising from atypical melanocytes in the skin .
an aggressive morphologic variant of chondrosarcoma .
inflammation of the skin and muscle .
a metabolic disorder characterized by abnormally high blood sugar levels due to diminished production of insulin or insulin resistance / desensitization .
progressive kidney disorder caused by vascular damage to the glomerular capillaries ,  in patients with diabetes mellitus .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the stomach .
a variant of systemic scleroderma characterized by sclerosis of the skin ,  raynaud phenomenon ,  and organ involvement ,  including pulmonary fibrosis ,  renal disease ,  and gastrointestinal tract involvement .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the small or large intestine .
cardiomyopathy which is characterized by dilation and contractile dysfunction of the left and right ventricles .
a carcinoma entirely confined to the mammary ducts .
inflammation of the endocardium .
an adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells resembling endometrial cells .
a brain disorder characterized by episodes of abnormally increased neuronal discharge resulting in transient episodes of sensory or motor neurological dysfunction ,  or psychic dysfunction .
a malignant tumor with glandular differentiation arising predominantly from barrett mucosa in the lower third of the esophagus .
a chronic myeloproliferative neoplasm that involves primarily the megakaryocytic lineage .
a fetus that does not grow beyond the 10th percentile of conventionally accepted weight for gestational age .
a poorly circumscribed neoplasm arising from the soft tissues .
a benign ,  encapsulated tumor ,  arising from the follicular cells of the thyroid gland .
a benign neuroblastic tumor of the sympathetic nervous system that occurs in childhood .
a differentiated adenocarcinoma arising from the follicular cells of the thyroid gland .
a neuroblastic tumor characterized by the presence of neuroblastic cells ,  ganglion cells ,  and a stroma with schwannian differentiation constituting more than fifty - percent of the tumor volume .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the stomach
an adenocarcinoma of the stomach arising on a background of intestinal metaplasia .
a disease involving the reproductive system .
a benign or malignant ,  gonadal or extragonadal neoplasm that originates from germ cells .
increased pressure in the eyeball due to obstruction of the outflow of aqueous humor .
a disease involving the head .
an abnormal increase in the number of cells in an organ or a tissue with consequent enlargement .
persistently high systemic arterial blood pressure .
a condition in which the myocardium is hypertrophied without an obvious cause .
a disorder resulting from an abnormality in the immune system .
inability to conceive for at least one year after trying and having unprotected sex .
an insulin - producing neuroendocrine tumor arising from the beta cells of the pancreas .
bleeding within the cranium .
an invasive ductal breast carcinoma associated with a lobular carcinomatous component .
an infiltrating lobular adenocarcinoma of the breast .
gastrointestinal symptoms characterized by chronic abdominal pain and altered bowel habits in the absence of any organic cause .
lack of blood supply to an area of the body ,  resulting in impairment of tissue oxygenation .
a malignant neoplasm characterized by a vascular proliferation which usually contains blunt endothelial cells .
squamous cell carcinomas with morphologically prominent production of keratin .
a usually aggressive carcinoma composed of large malignant cells which display neuroendocrine characteristics .
an uncommon ,  aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  usually occurring in post - menopausal women .
a malignant  ( clonal )  hematologic disorder ,  involving hematopoietic stem cells and characterized by the presence of primitive or atypical myeloid or lymphoid cells in the bone marrow and the blood .
a usually painless malignant tumor that arises from adipose tissue .
a carcinoma that arises from the lung and is characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells .
a malignant  ( clonal )  proliferation of b -  lymphocytes or t -  lymphocytes which involves the lymph nodes ,  bone marrow and / or extranodal sites .
an infiltrating breast carcinoma with a relatively favorable prognosis .
a usually malignant and aggressive neoplasm of the mesothelium which is often associated with exposure to asbestos .
a congenital disorder  ( due to inherited enzyme abnormality )  or acquired  ( due to failure of a metabolically important organ )  disorder resulting from an abnormal metabolic process .
a synovial sarcoma characterized by the presence of an epithelial or a spindle cell component only .
gross necrosis of the myocardium ,  as a result of interruption of the blood supply to the area ,  as in coronary thrombosis .
a benign or malignant tissue growth resulting from uncontrolled cell proliferation .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the brain ,  spinal cord ,  or peripheral nerves .
neuroblastoma  ( nb )  is the most common solid ,  extracranial childhood tumor .
a neoplasm composed of melanocytes that usually appears as a dark spot on the skin .
a malignant cystic serous or mucinous epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells forming papillary structures .
a differentiated adenocarcinoma arising from the follicular cells of the thyroid gland .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process that affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth .
a contagious bacterial respiratory infection caused by bordetella pertussis .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant fibroepithelial neoplasm arising from the breast and rarely the prostate gland .
a usually exophytic mass attached to the underlying tissue by a broad base or a thin stalk .
increased blood pressure in the portal venous system .
preeclampsia is a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy that is characterized by new - onset hypertension with proteinuria presenting after 20 weeks of gestation ,  and depending on mild or severe forms may initially present with severe headache ,  visual disturbances ,  and hyperreflexia .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the prostate gland
an autoimmune condition characterized by red ,  well - delineated plaques with silvery scales that are usually on the extensor surfaces and scalp .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of mental process .
a wedge - shaped fibrovascular lesion arising from the bulbar conjunctiva and extending to the cornea .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the kidney
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the respiratory system .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm of the soft tissue or bone .
a major psychotic disorder characterized by abnormalities in the perception or expression of reality .
a viral respiratory infection caused by the sars coronavirus .
a usually aggressive ,  poorly differentiated invasive adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells in which the nucleus is pressed to one side by the presence of intracytoplasmic mucus .
any deviation from the normal structure or function of the skin or subcutaneous tissue that is manifested by a characteristic set of symptoms and signs .
an antiquated term that refers to benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasms characterized by the presence of neoplastic spindle - shaped to round cells arranged around thin - walled branching vascular spaces .
a group of inflammatory rheumatic diseases associated with arthritis and enthesitis ,  and often involving the axial skeleton .
a carcinoma arising from squamous epithelial cells .
a carcinoma arising from squamous bronchial epithelial cells .
a sudden loss of neurological function secondary to hemorrhage or ischemia in the brain parenchyma due to a vascular event .
intracranial hemorrhage into the subarachnoid space .
a chronic disorder ,  possibly autoimmune ,  marked by excessive production of collagen which results in hardening and thickening of body tissues .
an inflammatory bowel disease involving the mucosal surface of the large intestine and rectum .
an aggressive malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the liver and usually occurs in older children .
a locally aggressive malignant neoplasm composed of mature adipocytes showing cell size variation and nuclear atypia .
cancer cells are given a score of 1 to 3 ,  with 1 being assigned when they look similar to normal cells and 3 being used when the cancer cells look very abnormal .
a malignant ,  usually aggressive tumor composed of atypical ,  neoplastic melanocytes .
a benign ,  usually painless ,  well - circumscribed lipomatous tumor composed of adipose tissue .
any disease caused by a virus .
an infection caused by the human immunodeficiency virus .
a disease of the heart muscle or myocardium proper whose cause is unknown .
an infection that is caused by epstein - barr virus .
a malignant neoplasm that arises from mesothelial cells in the pleura and shows a diffuse growth pattern .
an acute infectious disorder that is caused by gram positive or gram negative bacteria ;  representative examples include pneumococcal ,  streptococcal ,  salmonella ,  and meningeal infections .
infections with bacteria of the species streptococcus pneumoniae .
a localization - related  ( focal )  form of epilepsy characterized by recurrent seizures that arise from foci within the temporal lobe ,  most commonly from its mesial aspect .
a systemic infection caused by the gram - positive bacterium tropheryma whipplei .
aeromonas hydrophila infection is a bacterial disease caused by infection from the aeromonas hydrophila bacteria .
a tick - borne ,  infectious disease caused by anaplasma phagocytophilum ,  an obligate intracellular bacterium that is typically transmitted to humans by ticks of the ixodes ricinus species complex .
an infection caused by bacillus anthracis bacteria .
a virus infection induced by drosophila c virus  ( dcv )  which is a positive - sense rna virus belonging to the dicistroviridae family .
a bacterial infection induced by enterococcus faecalis which is the most prevalent species  ( along with enterococcus faecium )  cultured from humans ,  accounting for more than 90% of clinical isolates .
a bacterial infection induced by pectobacterium carotovorum which is is a bacterium of the family enterobacteriaceae .
leprosy is a chronic infectious disease affecting primarily the skin and peripheral nervous system .
a form of leprosy in which there are clinical manifestations of both principal types  ( lepromatous and tuberculoid )  .
a principal or polar form of leprosy in which the skin lesions are few and are sharply demarcated .
a chronic communicable infection which is a principal or polar form of leprosy .
a disease involving the sensory system .
partial or complete opacity of the crystalline lens of one or both eyes that decreases visual acuity and eventually results in blindness .
an autoimmune genetic disorder with an unknown pattern of inheritance that primarily affects the digestive tract .
a carcinoma arising from either the exocervical squamous epithelium or the endocervical glandular epithelium .
a herpesvirus infection caused by cytomegalovirus .
the growth of functional endometrial tissue in anatomic sites outside the uterine body .
an autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system that is produced experimentally in animals by the injection of homogenized brain or spinal cord in freund's adjuvant .
a successful invasion of a host by an organism that uses the host for food and shelter .
malaria is a serious and sometimes fatal disease caused by a parasite that commonly infects a certain type of mosquito which feeds on humans .
any condition related to a disturbance between proper intake and utilization of nourishment .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the lung
an excess of body weight ,  normally defined as an individual with a body mass index greater than 35 or a body weight greater than one hundred percent of ideal body weight .
a malignant neoplasm originating from the surface ovarian epithelium .
infections with bacteria of the genus pseudomonas .
a pseudomonas aeruginosa cf5 infection is a pseudomonas infection of strain cf5 .
a pseudomonas aeruginosa pa14 infection is a pseudomonas infection of strain pa14 .
an instance of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which there is no known cause ,  such as no family history .
an anxiety disorder precipitated by an experience of intense fear or horror while exposed to a traumatic  ( especially life - threatening )  event .
a chronic condition characterized by minimal or absent production of insulin by the pancreas .
a type of diabetes mellitus that is characterized by insulin resistance or desensitization and increased blood glucose levels .
increased pressure within the pulmonary circulation due to lung or heart disorder .
age - related loss of vision in the central portion of the retina  ( macula )  ,  secondary to retinal degeneration .
a disease involving the endocrine system .
a condition of diminution or cessation of secretion of one or more hormones from the anterior pituitary gland .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the cervical epithelium .
a disease involving the liver .
a disorder characterized by replacement of the liver parenchyma with fibrous tissue and regenerative nodules .
inflammation of the brain and the spinal cord .
a neoplasm composed of a lymphocytic cell population which is usually malignant  ( clonal )  by molecular genetic and / or immunophenotypic analysis .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the prostate gland .
a ruptured aneurysm located in the wall of the proximal portion of the descending aorta proceeding from the arch of the aorta .
an infectious process caused by a human papillomavirus .
an infection affecting monkeys ,  chimpanzees ,  and other non human primates caused by a hiv - like virus .
a malignant mesenchymal fibroblastic neoplasm affecting the soft tissue and bone .
a neoplasm which is characterized by the absence of morphologic features associated with malignancy  ( severe cytologic atypia ,  tumor cell necrosis ,  and high mitotic rate )  .
a benign ,  well - circumscribed ,  bone - forming neoplasm predominantly composed of lamellar bone .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm arising from the fibrous tissue .
a neoplasm arising from immature b and t cells
a group of neoplasms composed of t - lymphocytes with a mature  ( peripheral / post - thymic )  immunophenotypic profile and / or nk - cells .
proliferation of myeloid cells originating from a primitive stem cell .
chronic form of myeloproliferative neoplasm .
a disease involving the skeletal system .
a precancerous lesion of the skin composed of atypical keratinocytes .
acute form of hypotension  ( disease )  .
insulitis is an inflammatory infiltration of the islets of langerhans found especially in young patients with recent onset type 1 diabetes .
a benign form of insulitis which is an inflammation of the islets of langerhans of the pancreas .
a serous neoplasm in which the cysts and papillae are lined by a single layer of cells without atypia ,  architectural complexity or invasion .
a noninflammatory degenerative joint disease occurring chiefly in older persons ,  characterised by degeneration of the articular cartilage ,  hypertrophy of bone at the margins and changes in the synovial membrane .
a benign adenoma of ovary
a progressive degenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterized by loss of dopamine producing neurons in the substantia nigra and the presence of lewy bodies in the substantia nigra and locus coeruleus .
a mitochondrial myopathy characterized by slowly progressive paralysis of the levator palpebrae ,  orbicularis oculi ,  and extraocular muscles .
a benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by serous epithelial cells in a fibrotic stroma .
a benign ovarian surface epithelial - stromal tumor characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by serous epithelial cells ,  mucinous columnar epithelial cells ,  or endometrial - type well - differentiated cells .
an infiltrating adenocarcinoma that arises from the epithelial cells of the pancreas .
an older ,  deprecated term that encompassed three major types of autoimmune or autoinflammatory arthritis in children: systemic - onset ,  pauciarticular ,  or polyarticular arthritis .
a psychologically and socially impaired state ,  with or without physiological changes ,  that develops as a result of using cocaine and which leads to compulsive behaviors to acquire the substance .
an infectious process caused by the human herpesvirus 8 .
a kaposi sarcoma that develops after organ transplantation or immunosuppressive treatment .
carotid stenosis is a narrowing or constriction of the inner surface  ( lumen )  of the carotid artery ,  usually caused by atherosclerosis .
macroglobulinemia is the presence of increased levels of macroglobulins in the circulating blood .
a melanoma that has spread from its primary site to another anatomic site .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the exocrine pancreas
a neoplastic proliferation of the epithelial cells that line the acini and the ducts of the prostate gland .
infection with any of the rotaviruses .
septic peritonitis is an inflammatory condition of the peritoneum that occurs secondary to microbial contamination .
presence of structurally anomalous spermatozoa in the semen ;  malformations include the physical bending of the sperm to produce kinks or bends
a neoplasm that affects the thymus .
intraepithelial neoplasia of the vulvar squamous epithelium .
an dilated cardiomyopathy caused by infection with viruses .
a type of heart disorder referring to the inability of the ventricles to fill with blood because the myocardium  ( heart muscle )  stiffens and looses its flexibility .
a genetic predisposition to form ige antibodies in response to exposure to allergens and therefore ,  for the development of immediate  ( type i )  hypersensitivity and atopic conditions ,  such as allergic rhinitis ;  bronchial asthma ,  atopic dermatitis ,  and food allergy .
adverse functional ,  metabolic ,  or structural changes in ischemic tissues resulting from the restoration of blood flow to the tissue  ( reperfusion )  ,  including swelling ;  hemorrhage ;  necrosis ;  and damage from free radicals .
an antiphospholipid syndrome that occurs as an isolated disorder .
a carcinoma arising from the epithelium of the renal parenchyma or the renal pelvis .
an aggressive malignant tumor arising from trophoblastic cells .
a amelanotic melanoma that involves the zone of skin .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the wall of the uterine corpus  ( uterine body )  .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that ,  in well differentiated tumors ,  resemble the epithelium of the fallopian tube or ,  in poorly differentiated tumors ,  show anaplastic features and marked nuclear atypia .
a rare aggressive malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from skeletal muscle .
a carcinoma involving a uterus .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the vulva .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the mammalian vulva
carcinoma ,  predominantly squamous cell ,  arising from the epithelial cells of the hypopharynx .
an instance of cardiomyopathy that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
acquired ,  familial ,  and congenital disorders of skeletal muscle and smooth muscle .
fibrosis associated with cyst formation in the breast parenchyma .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the collecting duct of renal tubule
a carcinoma that arises from the transitional epithelium of the renal pelvis .
an acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  in which the blasts do not show evidence of myeloid differentiation by morphology and conventional cytochemistry .
an acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  characterized by blasts without evidence of maturation to more mature neutrophils .
an inflammatory process characterized by the accumulation of pus within a newly formed tissue cavity which is the result of a bacterial ,  fungal ,  or parasitic infection or the presence of a foreign body .
an infectious disease caused by bacteria causing sepsis .
inflammation of the dermis and subcutaneous tissues caused by a bacterial infection .
a viral infection caused by the hepatitis c virus .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm composed of large ,  atypical cells .
a group of at least three distinct histological types of lung cancer ,  including non - small cell squamous cell carcinoma ,  adenocarcinoma ,  and large cell carcinoma .
a plasma cell myeloma lacking clinical manifestations and organ impairment .
a non - neoplastic disorder characterized by a localized collection of histiocytes containing lipid .
a poorly differentiated liposarcoma ,  characterized by the presence of solid sheets of primitive round mesenchymal cells and the absence of myxoid stroma .
a disease involving the kidney .
an accumulation of pus in a body cavity ,  usually the pleural space .
a disorder affecting the peripheral nervous system .
an acute or chronic inflammation of the bone and its structures due to infection with pyogenic bacteria .
a bacterial infectious process affecting any part of the urinary tract ,  most commonly the bladder and the urethra .
an acute ,  acute and chronic ,  or chronic inflammation focally or diffusely affecting the lung parenchyma ,  caused by an infection in one or both of the lungs  ( by bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi ,  or mycoplasma . )  .
inflammatory process that involves the chorionic villi  ( villitis )  of the placenta .
a type of juvenile idiopathic arthritis affecting which is a form of arthritis which affect children .
inability of the heart to pump blood at an adequate rate to meet tissue metabolic requirements .
high - output heart failure is a heart condition that occurs when the cardiac output is higher than normal .
a heart failure which results in symptoms such as shortness of breath ,  fatigue ,  inability to exerciseb& etc
heart failure characterized by mild symptoms  ( mild shortness of breath and / or angina )  and slight limitation during ordinary activity .
heart failure characterized by marked limitation in activity due to symptoms ,  even during less - than - ordinary activity ,  e .g .
patients with advanced heart failure have severe limitations ,  experiences symptoms even while at rest and are mostly bedbound patients .
a spectrum of developmental disorders that includes autism ,  and asperger syndrome .
a disorder most often diagnosed in the pediatric years in which the individual displays marked impairment in social interaction and a repetitive ,  stereotyped pattern of behavior .
a disorder characterized by marked impairments in social interaction and communication accompanied by a pattern of repetitive ,  stereotyped behaviors and activities .
an autism spectrum disorder that involves some autistic symptoms occuring after age 3 with an abscence of all the traits necessary for a diagnosis of autism .
a congenital or acquired cyst that is present in the central nervous system .
a mood disorder having a clinical course involving one or more episodes of serious psychological depression that last two or more weeks each ,  do not have intervening episodes of mania or hypomania ,  and are characterized by a loss of interest or pleasure in almost all activities and by some or all of disturbances of appetite ,  sleep ,  or psychomotor functioning ,  a decrease in energy ,  difficulties in thinking or making decisions ,  loss of self - esteem or feelings of guilt ,  and suicidal thoughts or attempts .
a brief attack  ( from a few minutes to an hour )  of cerebral dysfunction of vascular origin ,  with no persistent neurological deficit .
a spectrum of small and large bowel inflammatory diseases of unknown etiology .
a chronic ,  pathological complication associated with diabetes mellitus ,  where retinal damages are incurred due to microaneurysms in the vasculature of the retina ,  progressively leading to abnormal blood vessel growth ,  and swelling and leaking of fluid from blood vessels ,  resulting in vision loss or blindness .
a disease involving the heart and / or pericardium .
a disease involving the carotid artery segment .
an immune response that occurs following re - exposure to an innocuous antigen ,  and that requires the presence of existing antibodies against that antigen .
a myelodysplastic syndrome characterized mainly by dysplasia of the erythroid series .
a disease involving the lung .
the decay of a tooth ,  in which it becomes softened ,  discolored ,  and / or porous .
a common ,  severe type of vascular headache often associated with increased sympathetic activity ,  resulting in nausea ,  vomiting ,  and light sensitivity .
an adenocarcinoma that is characterized by the presence of papillary patterns and cellular budding .
the obstruction of the pulmonary artery or one of its branches by an embolus ,  sometimes associated with infarction of the lung .
an infectious or non - infectious inflammatory process affecting the prostate gland .
a disease involving the gall bladder .
an autoimmune disorder that manifests as different lupus - specific skin disorders ;  it can occur with systemic lupus erythematosus ,  or as a singular disease .
any disease or disorder of the retina .
a form of multiple sclerosis characterized by a progressive deterioration in neurologic function which is in contrast to the more typical relapsing remitting form .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the hard palate ,  soft palate ,  or uvula .
disorders in which there is a delay in development based on that expected for a given age level or stage of development .
discrete abnormal tissue masses that protrude into the lumen of the intestine .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the paranasal sinuses .
a clinical syndrome resulting from direct or indirect muscle injury and subsequent release of myoglobin into the plasma .
a congenital or acquired aneurysm within the cranium .
inflammation of the colon .
an anatomic deformity in which the arch of the foot collapses ,  resulting in the entire sole of the foot coming into complete or near - complete contact with the ground .
any disorder affecting blood flow through the veins or arteries outside of the heart .
a symptom complex characterized by pain and weakness in skeletal muscle group associated with exercise ,  such as leg pain and weakness brought on by walking .
a disorder characterized by multiple cessations of respirations during sleep that induce partial arousals and interfere with the maintenance of sleep .
inflammation of the urethra .
a condition of reduced bone mass ,  with decreased cortical thickness and a decrease in the number and size of the trabeculae of cancellous bone  ( but normal chemical composition )  ,  resulting in increased fracture incidence .
diminished or absent blood supply to the brain caused by obstruction  ( thrombosis or embolism )  of an artery resulting in neurologic damage .
impairment of the renal function secondary to chronic kidney damage persisting for three or more months .
a progressive autoimmune disorder affecting the central nervous system resulting in demyelination .
a mental disorder characterized by inattention ,  easy distraction ,  careless mistakes and avoidance of tasks that require sustained mental focus .
drug dependence  -  replaced the term  \ "drug addiction \ " and is defined as a state ,  psychic and sometimes also physical ,  resulting from the interaction between a living organism and a drug ,  characterized by behavioral and other responses that always include a compulsion to take the drug on a continuous or periodic basis in order to experience its psychic effects ,  and sometimes to avoid the discomfort of its absence .
a neoplasm that involves the biliary tract .
an autoimmune chronic inflammatory disorder characterized by inflammation in the vertebral joints of the spine and sacroiliac joints .
prolonged shortening of the muscle or other soft tissue around a joint ,  preventing movement of the joint .
a ciliopathy is a genetic disorder of the cellular cilia or the cilia anchoring structures ,  the basal bodies ,  or of ciliary function .
traumatic or pathological injury to the spine in which the continuity of a vertebral bone is broken .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of an organized ,  regular atrial rhythm with atrial rate of 240 - 340 beats per minute .
build - up of fatty material and calcium deposition in the arterial wall resulting in partial or complete occlusion of the arterial lumen .
acute inflammation in the intestinal mucosa of the continent ileal reservoir  ( or pouch )  in patients who have undergone ileostomy and restorative proctocolectomy  ( proctocolectomy ,  restorative )  .
necrotizing enterocolitis  ( nec )  is a devastating disease that affects mostly the intestine of premature infants .
the most common clinical variant of multiple sclerosis ,  characterized by recurrent acute exacerbations of neurologic dysfunction followed by partial or complete recovery .
breaks in bones .
infection caused by bacterial overgrowth in the vagina .
a type of stomatitis that is characterized by small white ulcerative lesions ,  single or multiple ,  round or oval ,  lasting for 7 - 14 days and healing without scarring .
a traumatic or pathologic injury to the humerus in which the continuity of the humerus is broken .
traumatic or pathological injury to the tibia in which the continuity of the bone is broken .
fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy  ( fecd )  is the most frequent form of posterior corneal dystrophy and is characterized by excrescences on a thickened descemet membrane  ( corneal guttae )  ,  generalized corneal edema ,  with gradually decreased visual acuity .
fractures of the larger bone of the forearm .
bacterial diseases that are potentially transmitted or propagated by sexual conduct .
allergic rhinitis caused by outdoor allergens .
traumatic or pathological injury to the radius bone in which the continuity of the bone is broken .
an inflammatory reaction from ultraviolet radiation characterized by transient redness ,  tenderness and occasional blistering .
traumatic or pathological injury to the hip in which the continuity of either the femoral head ,  femoral neck ,  intertrochanteric or subtrochanteric regions is broken .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the eye .
a sarcoma arising from vascular tissue including arteries ,  veins ,  venous sinuses ,  arterioles and capillaries .
abnormally elevated thyroxine level in the blood .
a group of inherited conditions characterized initially by hematuria and slowly progressing to renal insufficiency .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the colon or rectum .
a disease of the muscle in which the muscle fibers do not function properly .
chronic outflow obstruction of the eye's drainage canals that can lead to increased internal eye pressure and optic nerve damage .
loss of scalp and body hair involving microscopically inflammatory patchy areas .
the most frequently seen skin cancer .
inflammation of a specific segment of glomeruli within the kidney .
a viral infection caused by the hepatitis b virus .
hypospadias is the displacement of the urethral meatus on the ventrum of the penis .
solid crystalline precipitates in the biliary tract ,  usually formed in the gallbladder ,  resulting in the condition of cholelithiasis .
a laboratory test result indicating elevated triglyceride concentration in the blood .
an irregularly shaped ,  elevated mark on the skin caused by deposits of excessive amounts of collagen during wound healing .
formation of spongy bone in the labyrinth capsule which can progress toward the stapes  ( stapedial fixation )  or anteriorly toward the cochlea leading to conductive ,  sensorineural ,  or mixed hearing loss .
enlargement and ballooning of the vessel that supplies arterial blood to the abdomen ,  pelvis and legs .
a disorder most often seen in adolescent females characterized by a refusal to maintain a minimally normal body weight ,  an intense fear of gaining weight ,  a disturbance in body image ,  and ,  in postmenarcheal females ,  the development of amenorrhea .
a disorder diagnosed in childhood or adolescence age group characterized by aggressive behavior ,  deceitfulness ,  destruction of property or violation of rules that is persistent and repetitive ,  and within a one year period .
the excessive use of marijuana with associated psychological symptoms and impairment in social or occupational functioning .
chronic form of hepatitis c infection .
recurrent narrowing or constriction of a coronary artery following surgical procedures performed to alleviate a prior obstruction .
sudden coronary artery smooth muscle contraction leading to lumen constriction and decreased blood flow .
a rare transmittable degenerative disorder of the brain caused by prions .
a serious condition caused by dengue virus infection .
a spectrum of clinical liver diseases ranging from mild biochemical abnormalities to acute liver failure ,  caused by drugs ,  drug metabolites ,  and chemicals from the environment .
eosinophilic esophagitis  ( eoe )  is a chronic ,  allergic disease of the esophagus characterized clinically by symptoms of esophageal dysfunction  ( including vomiting ,  dysphagia ,  feeding disorders ,  food impaction and abdominal pain )  which persist after treatment with proton pump inhibitors  ( ppis )  .
persistent or recurrent inability to achieve or to maintain an erection during sexual activity .
a renal disorder characterized by sclerotic lesions in the glomeruli .
graves' disease is an autoimmune disorder that leads to overactivity of the thyroid gland  ( hyperthyroidism )  .it is caused by an abnormal immune system response that causes the thyroid gland to produce too much thyroid hormones .
a partial or complete loss of hearing in one or both ears .
chronic form of hepatitis b infection .
physical and psychological dependence on the drug heroin .
a slow growing neuroendocrine tumor ,  composed of uniform ,  round ,  or polygonal cells having monotonous ,  centrally located nuclei and small nucleoli ,  infrequent mitoses ,  and no necrosis .
a cognitive disorder a disturbance in which the person's mood is hypothesized to be the main underlying feature .
the inability of the male to effect fertilization of an ovum after a specified period of unprotected intercourse .
infections with bacteria of the species neisseria meningitidis .
neoplasms that affect the bone marrow .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the nasopharynx .
a slowly progressive inflammation of the glomeruli characterized by immune complex deposits at the glomerular basement membrane ,  resulting in a thickened membrane ,  and nephrotic syndrome .
a collection of symptoms that include severe edema ,  proteinuria ,  and hypoalbuminemia ;  it is indicative of renal dysfunction .
a form of functional mental illness that manifests in distressed emotional reactions such as anxiety ,  obsessive thoughts ,  compulsive behaviors ,  or irrational fears .
a none disease characterized by death of bone tissue due to a lack of blood supply .
diseases of bones .
a disease of bone that initially results in the excessive resorption of bone  ( by osteoclasts )  followed by the replacement of normal bone marrow with vascular and fibrous tissue .
an anxiety disorder characterized by multiple unexpected panic attacks with persistent concern of recurring attacks .
a seizure caused by a localized disorder .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the arteries ,  veins ,  or lymphatic vessels .
a disorder of the arteries supplying the upper and lower extremity and the visceral organs .
absent or premature cessation of ovarian function due to a pathologic process originating within the ovaries .
primary biliary cholangitis  ( pbc )  is a chronic and slowly progressive cholestatic liver disease of autoimmune etiology characterized by injury of the intrahepatic bile ducts that may eventually lead to liver failure .
a condition that occurs while resting or lying in bed ;  it is characterized by an irresistible urgency to move the legs to obtain relief from a strange and uncomfortable sensation in the legs .
a congenital or acquired spinal deformity characterized by lateral curvature of the spine .
a condition characterized by painful swelling of the joints ,  which is caused by deposition of urate crystals .
tissue necrosis in any area of the brain ,  including the cerebral hemispheres ,  the cerebellum ,  and the brain stem .
neurological conditions resulting in abnormal voluntary or involuntary movement ,  which may impact the speed ,  fluency ,  quality and ease of movement .
an aneurysm formed in the wall of the proximal portion of the descending aorta proceeding from the arch of the aorta .
enlargement of the thyroid gland usually caused by lack of iodine in the diet ,  hyperthyroidism ,  or thyroid nodules .
soft tissue tumors or cancer arising from the mucosal surfaces of the lip ;  oral cavity ;  pharynx ;  larynx ;  and cervical esophagus .
occlusion of the lumen of a vein by a thrombus that has migrated from a distal site via the blood stream .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the colon .
a malignant lymphocytic neoplasm of b - cell or t - cell lineage involving primarily the bone marrow and the peripheral blood .
a medical condition characterized by long - term fatigue and other symptoms that limit a person's ability to carry out ordinary daily activities .
asthma that starts in childhood .
carbohydrate intolerance first diagnosed during pregnancy .
an eosinophilic esophagitis that starts in childhood .
diabetic cataracts are thought to be caused by hyperglycemia associated with disturbed glucose metabolism
graft - versus - host disease  ( gvhd )  is a common complication following an allogeneic tissue transplant .
a malignant neoplasm involving the gall bladder
an ulcer in the duodenal wall .
cystic fibrosis associated meconium ileum is a thickening and congestion of the meconium in the ileum in newborns ,  often the first sign of cystic fibrosis .
schizophrenia which does not respond to commonly used treatments .
noninflammatory degenerative disease of the knee joint consisting of three large categories: conditions that block normal synchronous movement ,  conditions that produce abnormal pathways of motion ,  and conditions that cause stress concentration resulting in changes to articular cartilage .
a form of retinal degeneration in which abnormal choroidal neovascularization occurs under the retina and macula lutea ,  causing bleeding and leaking of fluid .
left ventricular non - compaction  ( lvnc )  is characterized by prominent left ventricular trabeculae and deep inter - trabecular recesses .
a drug dependence that is a psychological dependency on the regular use of metamphetamine .
abnormally low levels of thyroid hormone .
a distinct ,  highly heritable hodgkin lymphoma subtype .
enlargement of an area of the body due to obstruction within the lymphatic system and the resulting accumulation of lymph .
a disease of the lymphatic vessels of the lower extremities that is caused by chronic exposure to irritant soils .
an infarct detected by mri and not determined to be clinically significant
a transmissible disease that is caused by a protein that is able to induce abnormal folding of normal cellular proteins ,  leading to characteristic spongiform brain changes ,  which are associated with neuronal loss without an inflammatory response .
a form of hypertension with early onset relative to normal range for a given population .
a drug dependence that is the physiological result of being addicted to alcohol and nicotine .
the response of human skin to sun exposure .
group of systemic vasculitis with a strong association with anca .
postoperative ventricular dysfunction  ( vnd )  occurs in 9 - 20% of coronary artery bypass graft  ( cabg )  surgical patients and is associated with increased postoperative morbidity and mortality .
a syndrome comprising testicular germ cell cancer ,  cryptorchidism and some cases of hypospadias and male infertility with impaired development of the testis .
the spread of a malignant neoplasm to the lymph nodes .
an inheritable form of hyperlipidemia ,  in which there are excess lipids in the blood .
a non - seminomatous malignant germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of large germ cells with abundant cytoplasm resembling epithelial cells ,  geographic necrosis ,  high mitotic activity ,  and pseudoglandular and pseudopapillary structures formation .
inflammation of the anatomical structures of the middle ear ,  which is most often caused by an infectious process .
diabetic nephropathy is a progressive kidney disease caused by angiopathy of capillaries in the kidney glomeruli .
diabetic nephropathy is a progressive kidney disease caused by angiopathy of capillaries in the kidney glomeruli .
a severe form of leishmaniasis characterized by irregular bouts of fever ,  substantial weight loss ,  swelling of the spleen and liver ,  and anaemia  ( which may be serious )  .
leishmaniasis affecting the skin .it is the most common form of leishmaniasis .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the testis .
liver injury resulting from hepatitis c infection .
a disease involving the conducting system of heart .
a broad group of psychological disorders with abnormal eating behaviors leading to physiological effects from overeating or insufficient food intake .
a disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of binge - eating over which the individual feels a lack of control ;  these episodes of binge - eating are followed by recurrent compensatory behavior to prevent weight gain ,  usually self - induced vomiting .
a heart disease that is present at birth .
a low ,  intermediate ,  or high grade malignant neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the lung .
a parasitic disorder caused by protozoa of the trypanosoma brucei species .
an acute viral respiratory infection caused by a strain of influenza virus which is endemic in swine  ( pigs )  .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the uterine body cavity .
a malignant neoplasm that originates in the neuroectoderm .
calcification of the aortic valve
retinal detachment secondary to retinal tear or break .
abnormal mental state resulting from an abuse of methamphetamine
a sleep disorder characterized by excessive sleepiness .
the response people may have when presented with work demands and pressures that are not matched to their knowledge and abilities and which challenge their ability to cope .
blood pressure that is abnormally low .
sudden fall of the blood pressure of at least 20 / 10 mm hg when a person stands up .
drastic decline in blood pressure which happens after eating a meal and most likely due to insufficient compensation in cardiac output by the autonomic nervous sytem for the diversion of blood to the intestines .
neurally mediated hypotension is a sudden drop in blood pressure while an individual stands up .
any condition affecting the anatomic and functional characteristics of the temporomandibular joint .
a migraine disorder characterized by episodes that are preceded by focal neurological symptoms .
a disease involving the atrioventricular node .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of three or more consecutive complexes of ventricular origin with a rate greater than a certain threshold  ( 100 or 120 beats per minute are commonly used )  .
a malignant form of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia that is characterized by heart rate between 200 and 250 beats per minute ,  and qrs complexes with changing amplitude and twisting of the points .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of an organized ,  regular atrial rhythm with atrial rate between 101 and 240 beats per minute .
an inflammatory skin condition caused by direct contact between the skin and either an irritating substance or an allergen .
a form of allergic contact dermatitis that results from exposure to nickel
a hypomineralisation of systemic origin of one to four permanent first molars frequently associated with affected incisors
hair loss as a result of chemotherapy treatment .
an adenoma that arises from the colon or rectum .
an abnormal condition of the mind that involves a loss of contact with reality .
oligodontia is a rare developmental dental anomaly in humans characterized by the absence of six or more teeth .
a disorder in which the individual suffers from both symptoms that qualify as schizophrenia and symptoms that qualify as a mood disorder  ( e .g . ,  depression or bipolar disorder )  for a substantial portion  ( but not all )  of the active period of the illness ;  for the remainder of the active period of the illness ,  the individual suffers from delusions or hallucinations in the absence of prominent mood symptoms .
a scoliosis with no known cause arising in adolescent .
a learning disorder characterized by an impairment in processing written words .
stroke caused by the blockage of blood flow in one of the large arteries feeding the brain .
a disease of the cardiac muscle developed subsequent to the initial protozoan infection by trypanosoma cruzi .
a vascular reaction of the skin characterized by erythema and wheal formation due to localized increase of vascular permeability .
anoxic encephalopathy resulting from acute co intoxication ,  developing within 2 - 6 weeks of the poisoning event
an invasive breast carcinoma which is negative for expression of estrogen receptor  ( er )  ,  progesterone receptor  ( pr )  ,  and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2  ( her2 )  .
a disease involving the adrenal gland .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the bile duct
a disease involving the bone development .
a serious bacterial infection caused by botulinum toxin which is produced by clostridium botulinum .
a malignant glioma that involves the brain .
a congenital disorder of glycosylation involve disrupted synthesis of the lipid - linked oligosaccharide precursor .
a congenital disorder of glycosylation that involves malfunctioning trimming / processing of the protein - bound oligosaccharide chain .
dengue fever  ( df )  ,  caused by dengue virus ,  is an arboviral disease characterized by an initial non - specific febrile illness that can sometimes progress to more severe forms manifesting capillary leakage and hemorrhage  ( dengue hemorrhagic fever ,  or dhf )  and shock  ( dengue shock syndrome ,  or dss )  .
a disease of mental health that occur during a child's developmental period between birth and age 18 resulting in retarding of the child's psychological or physical development .
a gram - positive bacterial infection caused by corynebacterium diphtheriae .
a benign glial - neuronal neoplasm .it is usually supratentorial ,  located ,  generally ,  in the cortex and occurs in children and young adults with a long - standing history of partial seizures .
an cancer with eccrine differentiation arising from the sweat glands .b
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the gums .
multiple osteochondromas  ( mo )  is characterised by development of two or more cartilage capped bony outgrowths  ( osteochondromas )  of the long bones .
a mesenchymal tumor composed of fibroblastic and histiocytic cells .
collection of urine in the renal pelvis that results in dilatation of the renal pelvis and calyces .
deficiency of janus kinase - 3 causing the near absence of t lymphocytes and natural killer cells ;  and normal or elevated b lymphocytes due to an autosomal recessive variant of severe combined immunodeficiency .
an aggressive malignant mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum .
nanophthalmia is a severe form of microphthalmia characterized by a small eye with a short axial length ,  severe hyperopia ,  an elevated lens / eye ratio ,  and a high incidence of angle - closure glaucoma .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the oral cavity .
a term referring to disorders characterized by abnormalities in the development of bones and cartilage .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the pharynx .
a condition consisting of possessing the internal reproductive organs of one sex while exhibiting some of the secondary sex characteristics of the opposite sex .
a carcinoma arising in the renal pelvis .
bone softening and weakening usually caused by deficiency or impaired metabolism of vitamin d . deficiency of calcium ,  magnesium ,  or phosphorus may also cause rickets .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the small intestine
errors in metabolic processing of steroids resulting from inborn genetic mutations that are inherited or acquired in utero .
a carcinoma arising from the sweat glands .
a malignant disease of the t - lymphocytes in the bone marrow ,  thymus ,  and / or blood .
a serious infectious disorder that follows wound contamination by the gram - positive bacterium clostridium tetani .
a group of neurologic disorders caused by damage to the nervous system following exposure to pharmacologic ,  biologic ,  and chemical agents .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of vitamin metabolic process .
disorders related or resulting from abuse or mis - use of opioids .
strong dependence ,  both physiological and emotional ,  upon morphine .
crohn's disease affecting the colon .
particular variety of ulcerative colitis where only the left half of the colon is inflamed .
ileocolitis or ileal crohn's is the most common type of crohn's disease .
crohn's disease affecting the mouth .
ulcerative colitis that involves the entire colon .
an crohn disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the anal canal .
an inflammatory process affecting the anus .
an crohn disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the small intestine .
a defect in the pars interarticularis of a vertebral bone .
signs and symptoms related to acute ischemia of the myocardium secondary to coronary artery disease .
autoimmune hepatitis characterized by the presence of antinuclear antibody  ( ana )  and antismooth - muscle antibody  ( asma )  .
age - related neuropathological condition with severe neuronal cell loss and gliosis in the hippocampus
an infectious process in which the bacteria staphylococcus aureus is present .
a chronic disorder of unknown etiology characterized by pain ,  stiffness ,  and tenderness in the muscles of neck ,  shoulders ,  back ,  hips ,  arms ,  and legs .
a medulloblastoma characterized by the presence of nodular ,  collagenous areas which do not contain reticulin ,  surrounded by hypercellular areas which contain an intercellular reticulin fiber network .
a carcinoma arising from the renal parenchyma .
a disorder resulting from the presence and activity of a microbial ,  viral ,  or parasitic agent .
an allergic disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the camera - type eye .
a disorder that is caused by pathologic changes in the ocular vasculature .
inflammatory and degenerative diseases of connective tissue structures ,  such as arthritis .
cycloplegia is paralysis of the ciliary muscle of the eye ,  resulting in a loss of accommodation .
glomerulonephritis in the context of systemic lupus erythematosus .
disorders in the processing of calcium in the body: its absorption ,  transport ,  storage ,  and utilization .
a disease involving the ovary .
a disorder of the central nervous system characterized by gradual and progressive loss of neural tissue and neurologic function .
a disease affecting the brain or part of the brain .
pathology involving the thoracic ,  thoracoabdominal ,  or abdominal aorta  ( including aneurysms )  .
age - related hearing impairment is characterized by a symmetric sensorineural hearing loss that is most pronounced in the high frequencies .
a rare ,  highly aggressive and lethal carcinoma that affects children and young adults .
a usually malignant neoplasm composed of primitive  ( immature )  tissues that resemble fetal tissues .
a malignant neoplasm composed of undifferentiated cells .
a constellation of neurobehavioral features observed in a neonate following antenatal exposure to drugs including opioids ,  benzodiazepines ,  and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors .
a substance - specific organic brain syndrome that follows the discontinuation of administration or use ,  or reduction in intake of an addictive substance ,  e .g .
blocking of a blood vessel by cholesterol - rich atheromatous deposits ,  generally occurring in the flow from a large artery to small arterial branches .
softening and degeneration of the cartilage .
a disease involving the hematopoietic system .
abnormally high mass or concentration of red blood cells in the blood ,  either due to an increase in erythropoiesis or a decrease in plasma volume .
polycythemia resulting from hypoxia .
neurodegenerative disorders involving deposition of abnormal tau protein isoforms  ( tau proteins )  in neurons and glial cells in the brain .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the colon or rectum .
cryoglobulinemia is a type of vasculitis that is caused by abnormal proteins  ( antibodies )  in the blood called 'cryoglobulins .'
an inflammatory process affecting a joint .
a chronic condition characterised by recurrent generalised seizures .
esophageal squamous cell carcinoma  ( escc )  is a type of esophageal carcinoma  ( ec )  that can affect any part of the esophagus ,  but is usually located in the upper or middle third .
malignant lymphoma of the bursa of fabricius ,  induced by avian leukosis virus occuring in birds .
recurrent episodes of over - eating .
a disease that occurs in animals .
serious heritable structural anomalies of the left side of the heart ,  including hypoplastic left heart syndrome ,  aortic valve stenosis ,  coarctation of the aorta ,  mitral valve anomalies and bicuspid aortic valve ,  that are present from birth .
a form of hypertension that occurs as a direct result of chemotherapy treatment
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the anatomic structures of the head and neck region .
inflammation and ulceration of the oral mucosa as a result of chemotherapy treatment .
pancreatits that is the result of treatment with thiopurine immunosuppressants such as azathioprine or mercaptopurine .
a breast carcinoma arising from the ducts .
a chronic inflammatory process that affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth .
a permanent mark left on the skin in the process of wound healing .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the larynx .
a malignant cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the glandular epithelium .
cystic renal cell carcinoma includes any malignant neoplasm of renal tubular epithelium which presents as a fluid - filled mass .
a neuroblastoma associated with increased dopamine excretion .
a malignant neoplasm arising from mesothelial cells in the pleura .
an invasive adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that contain intracytoplasmic mucin .
a non - seminomatous germ cell tumor arising from the ovary .
a tubular adenocarcinoma that involves the pancreas .
a benign papillary neoplasm composed of transitional cells which show preservation of the nuclear polarity .
an infiltrating adenocarcinoma in which the malignant cells form tubular structures .
a type of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease characterized by chronic inflammation in the bronchial tree that results in edema ,  mucus production ,  obstruction ,  and reduced airflow to and from the lung alveoli .
a highly contagious viral infection caused by the varicella zoster virus .
a common dermal and neurologic disorder caused by reactivation of the varicella - zoster virus that has remained dormant within dorsal root ganglia ,  often for decades ,  after the patient's initial exposure to the virus in the form of varicella  ( chickenpox )  .
disabling osteochondrodysplasia with osteosclerosis ,  cone - shaped metaphysis ,  and shortening of the diaphysis .
the most common morphologic subtype of urinary bladder carcinoma  ( over 90% of cases )  .
an adenocarcinoma of the cervix or the vagina arising from mesonephric remnants .
a carcinoma that arises from the pancreas showing both ductal and squamous differentiation .
plasmacytoma is a localized mass of neoplastic monoclonal plasma cells that represents approximately 5% of all plasma cell neoplasms .
a lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant non - keratinizing squamoid cells ,  mucin - producing cells and intermediate type cells .
a usually aggressive malignant epithelial neoplasm composed of atypical cells which do not display evidence of glandular ,  squamous ,  or transitional cell differentiation .
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by anxious feelings or fear often accompanied by physical symptoms associated with anxiety .
a bacterial infectious disorder contracted by consumption of food or drink contaminated with salmonella typhi .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  describes a group of rare familial central nervous system disorders characterized by amyloid deposition in the cerebral blood vessels leading to hemorrhagic and non - hemorrhagic strokes ,  focal neurological deficits ,  and progressive cognitive decline eventually leading to dementia .
damage to the blood vessels of the brain
inflammatory disease of the thyroid gland due to autoimmune responses leading to lymphocytic infiltration of the gland .
atrophic thyroiditis is an organ - specific autoimmune disease characterized by thyroid autoantibodies ,  functional hypothyroidism ,  and absence of goiter .
a sequestration of plasmodium falciparum in the brain ,  which can cause coma and / or seizures .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from and is composed of epithelial cells .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the head and neck .
a malignant neoplasm involving the male breast .
keratitis due to infection by acanthamoeba ;  it is usually associated with soft contact lens wear ,  particularly overnight wear .
a disease characterized by suppurative and granulomatous lesions in the respiratory tract ,  upper alimentary tract ,  skin ,  kidneys ,  joints ,  and other tissues .
actinomycosis is a chronic bacterial infection that commonly affects the face and neck .
a vaso - occlusive crisis of the pulmonary vasculature occurring in patients with sickle cell disease .
acute conjunctivitis that is characterized by bleeding into the conjunctiva .
a benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of a glandular and a mesenchymal  ( fibromyomatous )  component .
a low grade malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of a benign epithelial component  ( tubular and cleft - like glands )  and a low grade sarcomatous component that contains varying amounts of fibrous and smooth muscle tissues .
a rare disorder characterized by the lack of ability to recognize individuals ,  objects ,  shapes ,  sounds ,  or smells .
a prodromal phase of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  .
a syndrome characterized by a silent and inert state without voluntary motor activity despite preserved sensorimotor pathways and vigilance .
a slow progressive disease of mink caused by the aleutian mink disease virus .
conjunctivitis due to hypersensitivity to various allergens .
virus diseases caused by members of the alphavirus genus of the family togaviridae .
a parasitic infectious disorder caused by amoebas .
infection by hookworms of the genus ancylostoma .
a sexually transmitted papillary growth caused by the human papillomavirus .
dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure .
acute inflammation of the vermiform appendix .
virus diseases caused by the arenaviridae .
a viral infectious disease that involves fever and bleeding disorder caused by arenavirus .
infections caused by viruses of the genus arterivirus .
an infection that is caused by the roundworm ascaris lumbricoides ,  many cases of which remain asymptomatic .
infection with nematodes of the genus ascaridia .
infections with nematodes of the order ascaridida .
aspergillosis is an infection ,  growth ,  or allergic response caused by the aspergillus fungus .
infections with astrovirus ,  causing gastroenteritis in human infants ,  calves ,  lambs ,  and piglets .
a chronic inflammation in which the nasal mucosa gradually changes from a functional to a non - functional lining without mucociliary clearance .
infections with viruses of the genus avulavirus ,  family paramyxoviridae .
babesiosis refers to a condition caused by microscopic parasites that infect the red blood cells .
infection by parasites of the genus balantidium .
a neurologic syndrome following injury of the spinal sympathetic nerves of the neck .
an infectious disease produced by bacteria of the genus bartonella .
partial or complete paralysis of the facial muscles of one side of a person's face .
a motility disorder characterized by biliary colic ,  absence of gallstones ,  and an abnormal gallbladder ejection fraction .
hypersensitivity granulomatous pneumonitis caused by the inhalation of avian antigens that are present in the dust of the droppings and feathers of many species of birds .
a superficial mycosis that is caused by piedraia hortae and is manifested by a small firm black nodule involving the hair shaft .
a complication of malaria resulting from hemolysis .
infections with organisms of the genus blastocystis .
blastomycosis is a rare infection that may develop when people inhale a fungus called blastomyces dermatitidis ,  a fungus that is found in moist soil ,  particularly where there is rotting vegetation .
a disorder affecting the small intestine .
a benign but locally aggressive tumor that arises from the bone and is composed of mononuclear cells admixed with macrophages and osteoclast - like giant cells .
congenital disorder of lambs caused by a virus closely related to or identical with certain strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus .
an encephalomyelitis of horses ,  sheep and cattle caused by borna disease virus .
a multifactorial disease of cattle resulting from complex interactions between environmental factors ,  host factors ,  and pathogens .
acute disease of cattle caused by the bovine viral diarrhea viruses  ( diarrhea viruses ,  bovine viral )  .
a delayed relapse of epidemic typhus ,  caused by rickettsia prowazekii .
acute inflammation of the walls of the terminal bronchioles that spreads into the peribronchial alveoli and alveolar ducts .
brucellosis is a bacterial infection that spreads from animals to people via unpasteurized dairy products or by exposure to contaminated animal products or infected animals .
a form of paralytic poliomyelitis affecting neurons of the medulla oblongata of the brain stem .
virus diseases caused by caliciviridae .
infections with bacteria of the genus campylobacter .
physical and psychological dependence on the drug cannabis .
a combination of rheumatoid arthritis  ( ra )  and pneumoconiosis that manifests as intrapulmonary nodules ,  which appear homogenous and well - defined on chest x - ray .
infections caused by viruses of the genus cardiovirus ,  family picornaviridae .
cat scratch disease is an infectious illness caused by the bacteria bartonella  ( bartonella henselae )  .
cauda equina syndrome refers to a group of symptoms that occur when some of the nerves in the cauda equina  ( the bundle of nerves that spread out from the bottom of the spinal cord )  become compressed and / or damaged .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the cecum .
inflammation of arteries in the central nervous system that occurs in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or aids - related opportunistic infections .
a well - circumscribed mass composed of tuberculous granulation tissue that may occur in the cerebral hemispheres ,  cerebellum ,  brain stem ,  or perimeningeal spaces .
infections of the brain caused by the protozoan toxoplasma gondii that primarily arise in individuals with immunologic deficiency syndromes  ( see also aids - related opportunistic infections )  .
a clinical diagnosis presenting with painless cervical dilatation and spontaneous mid - trimester birth in recurrent pregnancies in the absence of spontaneous membrane rupture ,  bleeding or clinical chorioamnionitis .
a form of actinomycosis characterized by slow - growing inflammatory lesions of the lymph nodes that drain the mouth  ( lumpy jaw )  ,  reddening of the overlying skin ,  and intraperitoneal abscesses .
a contagious childhood disorder caused by the varicella zoster virus .
an infection that is caused by chlamydia trachomatis .
a subcutaneous mycosis that is a chronic subcutaneous fungal infection ,  which presents as nodular or verrucoid ,  ulcerated ,  or crusted skin lesions on exposed areas of skin caused by fonsecaea pedrosoi ,  fonsecaea compacta ,  cladophialophora carrionii or phialophora verrucosa .
infections with protozoa of the phylum ciliophora .
infection of the biliary passages with clonorchis sinensis ,  also called opisthorchis sinensis .
a fungal infection caused by coccidioides immitis .
a parasitic infection caused by coccidia .
a febrile illness characterized by chills ,  aches ,  vomiting ,  leukopenia ,  and sometimes encephalitis .
an inflammatory process affecting the nasal mucosa ,  usually caused by viruses  ( e .g . ,  rhinovirus ,  adenovirus ,  parainfluenza virus ,  and coronavirus )  .
coexistence of hodgkin and non - hodgkin lymphoma in the same anatomic site .
congenital diaphragmatic hernia  ( cdh )  is a posterolateral defect of the diaphragm that allows passage of abdominal viscera into the thorax ,  leading to respiratory insufficiency and persistent pulmonary hypertension with high mortality .
nystagmus present at birth or caused by lesions sustained in utero or at the time of birth .
a condition ,  whose clinical manifestations include intrauterine growth restriction ,  petechial rash ,  jaundice ,  generalized lymphadenopathy ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  peripheral pulmonary stenosis ,  cataracts ,  and sensorineural deafness ,  that is caused by fetal exposure to the rubella virus during the first trimester of pregnancy .
a life - threatening bacterial infection of the newborn caused by treponema pallidum .
toxoplasma infection that is present from birth .
a pleuropneumonia of cattle and goats caused by species of mycoplasma .
an infectious dermatitis of sheep and goats ,  affecting primarily the muzzle and lips .
virus diseases caused by coronaviridae .
virus diseases caused by the coronavirus genus .
a mild ,  eruptive skin disease of milk cows caused by cowpox virus ,  with lesions occurring principally on the udder and teats .
a heterogeneous group of infections produced by coxsackieviruses ,  including herpangina ,  aseptic meningitis  ( meningitis ,  aseptic )  ,  a common - cold - like syndrome ,  a non - paralytic poliomyelitis - like syndrome ,  epidemic pleurodynia  ( pleurodynia ,  epidemic )  and a serious myocarditis .
acute upper respiratory airways infection that results in the swelling of the larynx .
meningeal inflammation produced by cryptococcus neoformans ,  an encapsulated yeast that tends to infect individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and other immunocompromised states .
an acute or chronic ,  localized or disseminated infection by cryptococcus neoformans .
a protozoan infection that is caused by cyclospora cayetanensis ,  which is most commonly acquired from contaminated food or water ,  and which is characterized by watery diarrhea and abdominal pain .
a disease involving the diaphragm .
infection with flukes of the genus dicrocoelium .
infection with nematodes of the genus dictyocaulus .
a parasitic infection caused by genus of filarial worms called dipetalonema .
a disease of horses and donkeys caused by trypanosoma equiperdum .
eastern equine encephalitis  ( eee )  is an acute arboviral infection caused by an alphavirus of the togaviridae family transmitted by an infected mosquito ,  that is characterized by the onset of flulike symptoms including fever ,  chills ,  weakness ,  headache ,  vomiting ,  abdominal pain with diarrhea ,  myalgia ,  leucocytosis ,  and hematuria ,  rapidly progressing to diffuse central nervous system  ( cns )  involvement with confusion ,  somnolence ,  or even coma .
a viral hemorrhagic fever that is caused by the ebola virus ,  which is transmitted by contact with infected animals or humans ;  it is characterized by high fever ,  unexplained bleeding ,  and a high mortality rate .
a parasitic infection caused by tapeworm larvae of echinococcus .
infection by flukes of the genus echinostoma .
infectious disease processes ,  including meningitis ,  diarrhea ,  and respiratory disorders ,  caused by echoviruses .
allergic reaction to eggs that is triggered by the immune system .
cholecystitis resulting from infection by gas producing organisms .
infection with fungi of the genus encephalitozoon .
a non - seminomatous malignant germ cell tumor composed of primitive germ cells .
infections with nematodes of the order enoplida .
an infection that is caused by the nematode enterobius vermicularis ;  it is characterized predominantly by perianal pruritus .
an disease caused by infection with enterovirus .
chronic endemic respiratory disease of dairy calves and an important component of bovine respiratory disease complex .
an inflammatory lung disorder characterized by an increased number of eosinophils in the lungs .
an ephemerovirus infection of cattle caused by bovine ephemeral fever virus  ( ephemeral fever virus ,  bovine )  .
an acute ,  febrile ,  infectious disease generally occurring in epidemics .
circumscribed collections of suppurative material occurring in the spinal or intracranial epidural space .
inflammation of the epiglottis .
a generalized tonic - clonic seizure .
viral disease of horses caused by the equine infectious anemia virus  ( eiav ;  infectious anemia virus ,  equine )  .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the ethmoid sinus .
a chronic granulomatous inflammation involving the deep dermis and the subcutaneous tissues .
the state of being a eunuch ,  a male without testes or whose testes failed to develop .
infection of cattle and other herbivores with the giant liver fluke fascioloides magna .
parasitic infestation of the human lymphatic system by wuchereria bancrofti or brugia malayi .
infections with viruses of the family filoviridae .
infections with viruses of the family flaviviridae .
a neoplasm composed of spindle to ovoid cells which have morphologic and immunophenotypic characteristics of follicular dendritic cells .
a viral infectious disease that results in infection in cattle and swine ,  has material basis in foot - and - mouth disease virus ,  which is transmitted by contaminated fomites ,  or transmitted by ingestion of food contaminated with infected meat or animal products .
pulmonary diseases caused by fungal infections ,  usually through hematogenous spread .
a severe condition resulting from bacteria invading healthy muscle from adjacent traumatized muscle or soft tissue .
tuberculosis that involves any region of the gastrointestinal tract ,  mostly in the distal ileum and the cecum .
a viral ear infection caused by the spread of varicella - zoster virus to the facial nerves .
herpes simplex infection of the genitals ,  most commonly caused by the herpes simplex - 2 virus .
a benign condition characterized by the development of irregular patches in the surface of the tongue resulting in a map - like appearance .
infection due to the fungus geotrichum .
gerstmann syndrome is a very rare neurological disorder characterized by the specific association of acalculia ,  finger agnosia ,  left - right disorientation ,  and agraphia ,  which is supposed to be secondary to a focal subcortical white matter damage in the parietal lobe .
a condition resulting from infection by burkholderia mallei ,  which mainly affects horses .
an x - linked recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the g6pd gene .
an infection that is caused by nematodes of the genus gnathostoma ,  which is commonly found in southeast asia ,  and which is transmitted via the consumption of contaminated raw / undercooked birds ,  eels ,  fish ,  frogs ,  or reptiles .
a condition resulting from infection by klebsiella granulomati ,  which is characterized by ulcerative lesions of the genitalia .
infection with nematodes of the genus haemonchus ,  characterized by digestive abnormalities and anemia similar to that from hookworm infestation .
a clinical syndrome that is usually caused by enterovirus infection ,  and that is characterized by fever ,  anorexia ,  and painful sores in the mouth ,  distal extremities ,  and / or other sites ,  including the buttocks .
any infection caused by a virus of the genus hantavirus ,  which is transmitted by aerosolized rodent excreta or rodent bites ,  that can result in a variety of clinical manifestations from hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome to a pulmonary syndrome .
an accumulation of blood within the pericardial sac .
a disorder caused by hantaviruses of the family bunyaviridae .
infections with viruses of the genus henipavirus ,  family paramyxoviridae .
virus diseases caused by the hepadnaviridae .
infection of the liver with species of mycobacterium ,  most often mycobacterium tuberculosis .
acute inflammation of the liver in humans ;  caused by hepatitis e virus ,  a non - enveloped single - stranded rna virus .
inflammation of the liver in humans caused by hepatitis delta virus ,  a defective rna virus that can only infect hepatitis b patients .
acute inflammation of the liver caused by the hepatitis a virus .
a viral infectious disease that results in infection located in mouth ,  has material basis in human coxsackievirus a16 ,  has material basis in human enterovirus 71 ,  has material basis in group b coxsackievirus ,  or has material basis in echoviruses ,  which are transmitted by ingestion of food contaminated with feces ,  transmitted by contact with pharyngeal secretions ,  or transmitted by droplet spread of oronasal secretions .
stomatitis caused by herpesvirus hominis .
virus diseases caused by the herpesviridae .
a syndrome characterized by chronic ,  well - established diarrhea  ( greater than one month in duration )  without an identified infectious cause after thorough evaluation ,  in an hiv - positive individual .
involuntary weight loss of greater than 10 percent associated with intermittent or constant fever and chronic diarrhea or fatigue for more than 30 days in the absence of a defined cause other than hiv infection .
renal disease in human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  - infected patients .
infection of humans or animals with hookworms other than those caused by the genus ancylostoma or necator ,  for which the specific terms ancylostomiasis and necatoriasis are available .
an acute ,  localized swelling of the eyelid that may be external or internal and usually is a pyogenic  ( typically staphylococcal )  infection or abscess .
a viral infectious disease that results in increased proliferation of affected cd4 lymphocytes ,  has material basis in human t - lymphotropic virus 1 ,  which is transmitted by sexual contact ,  transmitted by contaminated needles used by intravenous - drug users ,  and transmitted by breast feeding .
a parasitic infection caused by tapeworms .
an inherited autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by the disorganized formation of new islets in the pancreas and congenital hyperinsulinism .
abnormally high level of prolactin in the blood .
infestation with larvae of the genus hypoderma ,  the warble fly .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the hypopharynx .
a rare immunodeficiency syndrome characterized by the decrease of the cd4 - positive lymphocytes below 300 per cubic millimeter in the absence of identifiable immunodeficiency causes .
inflammation of the conjunctiva in a newborn due to chlamydia trachomatis which was acquired during labor and delivery .
a viral infection of mice ,  causing edema and necrosis followed by limb loss .
a condition characterized by an increase in mononuclear white blood cells and swollen lymph nodes ,  which is usually caused by infection with the epstein - barr virus .
a viral infectious disease that results in infection located in eyes or located in upper respiratory tract of domestic rabbits ,  has material basis in myxoma virus ,  which is transmitted by mosquitos ,  transmitted by biting flies or transmitted by direct contact .
an acute viral infection of the respiratory tract ,  occurring in isolated cases ,  in epidemics ,  or in pandemics ;  it is caused by serologically different strains of viruses  ( influenzaviruses )  designated a ,  b ,  and c ,  has a 3 - day incubation period ,  and usually lasts for 3 to 10 days .
a neoplastic proliferation of spindle to ovoid cells which show phenotypic features similar to those of interdigitating dendritic cells .
a malignant neoplasm involving the intestine
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
kluver bucy syndrome is a rare behavioral impairment characterized byinappropriate sexual behaviors and mouthing of objects .
extrapulmonary tuberculosis involving the larynx .
a viral hemorrhagic fever that is caused by the lassa virus ,  which is transmitted by contact with infected rodents ;  it is characterized by fever ,  headache ,  malaise ,  myalgia ,  and hearing loss .
a stage of syphilis characterized by the serologic evidence of infection by treponema pallidum without evidence of accompanying signs or symptoms related to the disease .
any disease caused by legionella bacteria .
a pneumonia caused by legionella pneumophila and other legionella species ,  which is characterized by fever ,  cough ,  progressive respiratory distress ,  and which is often accompanied by extrapulmonary manifestations .
a contagious bacterial infection caused by spirochetes of the genus leptospira .
pneumonia due to aspiration or inhalation of various oily or fatty substances .
a rare syndrome characterized by almost complete absence of body fat ,  accentuated muscularity ,  insulin - resistant diabetes ,  hyperlipidemia ,  hepatomegaly ,  and hypermetabolism .
a bacterial infection caused by listeria monocytogenes .
an acute tick - borne arbovirus infection causing meningoencephalomyelitis of sheep .
a poxvirus infection of cattle characterized by the appearance of nodules on all parts of the skin .
tuberculosis of the lymph node .
inflammation of the lymphatic vessels .
a disease involving the lymphatic part of lymphoid system .
infection with the organism mycobacterium .
an autosomal dominant hereditary neoplastic syndrome characterized by the development of colorectal carcinoma and a high risk of developing endometrial carcinoma ,  gastric carcinoma ,  ovarian carcinoma ,  renal pelvis carcinoma ,  and small intestinal carcinoma .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the male reproductive system .
a malignant neoplasm involving the mandible
a parasitic infection caused by the nematode mansonella .
cancer or tumors of the maxilla or upper jaw .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the maxillary sinus .
a malignant neoplasm involving the mediastinum
an eyelid cyst caused by the blockage of a meibomian gland .
inflammation of the meninges and brain ,  generally secondary to an infectious cause .
a fungal infection caused by microsporidia .
atelectasis of the right middle pulmonary lobe ,  with chronic pneumonitis .
i would say the hematogenous widespread dissemination of tuberculosis in the body .
allergic reaction to milk  ( usually cow's milk )  or milk products .
virus diseases caused by the poxviridae .
an autoimmune process characterized by the clinical triad of ophthalmoplegia ,  ataxia ,  and areflexia .
narrowing of the left atrioventricular mitral orifice .
a malignant neoplasm composed of a carcinomatous epithelial component and a sarcomatous mesenchymal component .
mixed connective tissue disease  ( mctd )  is a rare autoimmune disorder that is characterized by features commonly seen in three different connective tissue disorders: systemic lupus erythematosus ,  scleroderma ,  and polymyositis .
a common ,  benign ,  usually self - limited viral infection of the skin and occasionally the conjunctivae by a poxvirus  ( molluscum contagiosum virus )  .
infections with viruses of the order mononegavirales .
infections with viruses of the genus morbillivirus ,  family paramyxoviridae .
an invasive adenocarcinoma characterized by cystic changes and the presence of malignant glandular cells which contain intracytoplasmic mucin .
the most common form of leishmaniasis that is transmitted through the bite of female phlebotomine sand flies or after exposure to leishmania parasites .
tuberculosis disease that is caused by a multidrug - resistant strain of mycobacterium tuberculosis .
an acquired disorder characterized by recurrent symptoms ,  referable to multiple organ systems ,  occurring in response to demonstrable exposure to many chemically unrelated compounds at doses below those established in the general population to cause harmful effects .
a malignant neoplasm affecting the skeletal or smooth muscles .
an extrinsic allergic alveolitis involving inflammation of the alveoli within the lung caused by hypersensitivity to the inhalation of organic dust particles derived from either the mushrooms ,  their spores or the compost in which the mushrooms are grown .
an infection that is caused by mycobacterium avium .
interstitial pneumonia caused by extensive infection of the lungs  ( lung )  and bronchi ,  particularly the lower lobes of the lungs ,  by mycoplasma pneumoniae in humans .
a laboratory test result indicating an abnormal amount of circulating nucleated red blood cells and immature red blood cells .
a disorder caused by an infection with hookworms of the genus necator ,  which settle in the host's small intestine ,  and cause abdominal pain ,  diarrhea ,  weight loss ,  and anemia .
infections caused by nematode larvae which never develop into the adult stage and migrate through various body tissues .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the nervous system .
infections of the nervous system caused by fungi of the genus aspergillus ,  most commonly aspergillus fumigatus .
schistosomiasis of the brain ,  spinal cord ,  or meninges caused by infections with trematodes of the genus schistosoma  ( primarily schistosoma japonicum ;  schistosoma mansoni ;  and schistosoma haematobium in humans )  .
a condition caused by infection by the newcastle disease virus ,  which may be characterized by conjunctivitis ,  respiratory illness ,  and diarrhea .
infections with viruses of the order nidovirales .
onchocerciasis affecting the eye .
ocular toxoplasmosis is an infection in the eye caused by the parasite ,  toxoplasm a gondii .
infection of the intestinal tract with worms of the genus oesophagostomum .
a lower than normal quantity of amniotic fluid in the amniotic sac as compared to normal values .
virus infection of the gasserian ganglion and its nerve branches characterized by pain and vesicular eruptions with much swelling .
infection with flukes of the genus opisthorchis .
optic neuritis is inflammation of the optic nerve ,  the nerve that carries the visual signal from the eye to the brain .the conditionmay cause sudden ,  reduced vision in the affected eye ( s )  .
infection of the mucosal lining of the mouth with the fungus candida albicans .
tuberculosis of the mouth ,  tongue ,  and salivary glands .
disease caused by the chlamydophila psittaci bacteria ,  usually transmitted from birds to humans .
virus diseases caused by the orthomyxoviridae .
a disorder that is characterized by bone cysts and fractures ,  resulting from hyperparathyroidism .
a disease of herbivorous mammals ,  particularly cattle and sheep ,  caused by stomach worms of the genus ostertagia .
otitis media associated with accumulation of fluid in the middle ear .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
a systemic fungal infection caused by paracoccidioides brasiliensis that is most often seen in immunocompromised patients .
a parasitic infection caused by trematodes of the paragonimus genus .
infections with viruses of the family paramyxoviridae .
an acute or chronic infection of the soft tissues around the nail .
a disease involving the parotid gland .
inflammation of the parotid glands .
infections with bacteria of the genus pasteurella .
allergic reaction to peanuts that is triggered by the immune system .
inflammation of the sac surrounding the heart  ( pericardium )  due to mycobacterium tuberculosis infection .
an inflammatory process affecting the pericardium .
excessive periodic leg movements during sleep that cause micro - arousals and interfere with the maintenance of sleep .
an abscess that develops in the space surrounding one or both palatine tonsils .
unexplained symptoms reported by veterans of the persian gulf war with iraq in 1991 .
a highly fatal contagious disease of goats and sheep caused by peste - des - petits - ruminants virus .
infections with viruses of the genus pestivirus ,  family flaviviridae .
disorders in which phagocytic cells cannot kill ingested bacteria ;  characterized by frequent recurring infection with formulation of granulomas .
a condition characterized by fever ,  conjunctivitis ,  and pharyngitis resulting from infection by adenovirus .
the misuse of phencyclidine with associated psychological symptoms and impairment in social or occupational functioning .
influenza - like febrile viral disease caused by several members of the bunyaviridae family and transmitted mostly by the bloodsucking sandfly phlebotomus papatasii .
virus diseases caused by the picornaviridae .
a yeast infection usually manifested as a superficial skin infection .
the clinical condition in which any part of the placenta invades and is inseparable from the uterine wall .
a disease involving the placenta .
abnormal placentation in which the placenta implants in the lower segment of the uterus  ( the zone of dilation )  and may cover part or all of the opening of the cervix .
failure of the placenta to deliver an adequate supply of nutrients and oxygen to the fetus .
malaria resulting from infection by plasmodium falciparum .
malaria resulting from infection by plasmodium vivax .
inflammation of the pleura secondary to an infection with mycobacterium tuberculosis .
infections with species in the genus pneumocystis ,  a fungus causing interstitial plasma cell pneumonia  ( pneumonia ,  pneumocystis )  and other infections in humans and other mammals .
bovine respiratory disease found in animals that have been shipped or exposed to cattle recently transported .
infections with polyomavirus ,  which are often cultured from the urine of kidney transplant patients .
a condition characterized by a chronically swollen limb ,  often a leg with stasis dermatitis and ulcerations .
a type of clinical depression that occurs after childbirth .
a highly contagious herpesvirus infection affecting the central nervous system of swine ,  cattle ,  dogs ,  cats ,  rats ,  and other animals .
a malignant neoplasm of the lung composed of tubular structures and immature mesenchymal elements ,  which may differentiate towards skeletal and smooth muscle ,  cartilage or a combination of muscle and cartilage .
infections with nontuberculous mycobacteria  ( atypical mycobacteria ) : m . kansasii ,  m . marinum ,  m . scrofulaceum ,  m . flavescens ,  m . gordonae ,  m . obuense ,  m . gilvum ,  m . duvali ,  m . szulgai ,  m . intracellulare  ( see mycobacterium avium complex ;  )  ,  m . xenopi  ( littorale )  ,  m . ulcerans ,  m . buruli ,  m . terrae ,  m . fortuitum  ( minetti ,  giae )  ,  m . chelonae .
a disorder characterized by episodes of vigorous and often violent motor activity during rem sleep  ( sleep ,  rem )  .
infection of the kidney due to mycobacteria .
infections produced by reoviruses ,  general or unspecified .
infections with viruses of the genus respirovirus ,  family paramyxoviridae .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the retroperitoneum .
an acute and potentially fatal metabolic disorder characterized by cerebral edema ,  fatty liver and hypoglycemia .
infections with nematodes of the order rhabditida .
virus diseases caused by rhabdoviridae .
a granulomatous disease caused by klebsiella rhinoscleromatis infection .
chronic ,  localized granulomatous infection of mucocutaneous tissues ,  especially the nose ,  and characterized by hyperplasia and the development of polyps .
pneumonia caused by infection with bacteria of the family rickettsiaceae .
infection with roseolovirus ,  the most common in humans being exanthema subitum ,  a benign disease of infants and young children .
poisoning caused by ingestion of food harboring species of salmonella .
a streptococcal infection ,  mainly occurring among children ,  that is characterized by a red skin rash ,  sore throat ,  and fever .
an infiltrating adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of desmoplastic stromal reaction .
infection with larvae of the blow fly cochliomyia hominivorax  ( callitroga americanum )  ,  a common cause of disease in livestock in the southern and southwestern u .s .a .
a plague in which the bacteria have entered the bloodstream .
infection with nematodes of the genus setaria .
a group of symptoms that are two -  to three - fold more common in those who work in large ,  energy - efficient buildings ,  associated with an increased frequency of headaches ,  lethargy ,  and dry skin .
silicosis is a respiratory disease caused by breathing in  ( inhaling )  silica dust .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the mucous membranes of any sinus cavity .
tuberculosis of the bones or joints .
a condition resulting from infection with the second stage larvae of the parasite spirometra .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the mucous membrane of the sphenoid sinus .
narrowing of the spinal canal .
a malignant neoplasm involving the spleen
infection of the spleen with species of mycobacterium .
the commonest and least serious of the deep mycoses ,  characterized by nodular lesions of the cutaneous and subcutaneous tissues .
a viral encephalitis caused by the st . louis encephalitis virus  ( encephalitis virus ,  st . louis )  ,  a flavivirus .
pneumonia caused by infections with bacteria of the genus staphylococcus ,  usually with staphylococcus aureus .
food poisoning that is caused by staphylococcal infection .
a febrile disease caused by streptococcus pneumoniae .
infections with nematodes of the order strongylida .
an infection that is caused by nematodes of the genus strongyloides ,  most commonly strongyloides stercoralis ,  which is a soil - transmitted helminth ,  and which is characterized by a variety of gastrointestinal ,  dermatologic ,  and ,  occasionally ,  pulmonary manifestations .
inflammation of the middle ear with purulent discharge .
a contagious bacterial infection caused by the spirochete treponema pallidum .
a form of neurosyphilis characterized by slowly progressive degeneration of the spinal cord .
infection of cattle ,  sheep ,  or goats with protozoa of the genus theileria .
a syndrome resulting from the compression of the blood vessels or nerves in the space between the clavicle and first rib  ( thoracic outlet )  .
infestations with soft - bodied  ( argasidae )  or hard - bodied  ( ixodidae )  ticks .
paralysis caused by a neurotropic toxin secreted by the salivary glands of ticks .
a skin infection caused by a fungus .
a severe ,  chronic fungal skin infection ,  usually of the scalp ,  characterized by the development of thick ,  yellow cup - shaped crusts and scarring over hair follicles .
dermatological pruritic lesion in the feet ,  caused by trichophyton rubrum ,  t . mentagrophytes ,  or epidermophyton floccosum .
virus diseases caused by the togaviridae .
infections with viruses of the genus torovirus ,  family coronaviridae .
infections with nematodes of the genus toxascaris .
a parasitic infection caused by worms found in domestic animals .
a parasitic disease contracted by the ingestion or fetal transmission of toxoplasma gondii .
an inflammatory process affecting the wall of the trachea .
an intermittent fever characterized by intervals of chills ,  fever ,  and splenomegaly each of which may last as long as 40 hours .
a parasitic infection caused by larvae of worms of the genus trichinella .
a sexually transmitted parasitic infection caused by trichomonas vaginalis .
infection by roundworms of the superfamily trichostrongyloidea ,  including the genera trichostrongylus ;  ostertagia ;  cooperia ,  haemonchus ;  nematodirus ,  hyostrongylus ,  and dictyocaulus .
infestation with nematode worms of the genus trichostrongylus .
an infection that is caused by the nematode trichuris trichiura ,  a soil - transmitted helminth ,  which is transmitted via food and / or water contaminated with the eggs of the worm .
narrowing or stricture of the tricuspid orifice of the heart .
infestation with mites of the genus trombiculidae ,  whose larvae carry the rickettsial agent of scrub typhus .
an empyema resulting from infection by mycobacterium tuberculosis .
a form of peritonitis seen in patients with tuberculosis ,  characterized by lesion either as a miliary form or as a pelvic mass on the peritoneal surfaces .
a bladder infection that occurs as a manifetation of a systemic infection with one or more species of the parasitic worms of the schistosoma type ;  this can progress to bladder cancer in time .
a general term for mycobacterium infections of any part of the urogenital system in either the male or the female .
a malignant neoplasm involving the body of uterus .
inflammation in the nasal cavity mucosa that results from the abnormal regulation of the blood flow in the nose .
a condition caused by infection by the venezuelan equine encephalitis virus ,  which is characterized by headache ,  fever ,  myalgia ,  nausea ,  and vomiting .
a well differentiated squamous cell carcinoma characterized by a papillary growth pattern ,  acanthosis ,  mild cytologic atypia ,  and pushing tumor margins .
abnormal flow of urine from the urinary bladder back into the ureters .
idiopathic inflammation of the vestibular nerve ,  characterized clinically by the acute or subacute onset of vertigo ;  nausea ;  and imbalance .
encephalitis resulting from viral infection .
a systemic infection of various salmonid and a few nonsalmonid fishes caused by viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus  ( see novirhabdovirus )  , 
an acute or chronic inflammation of the liver parenchyma caused by viruses .
inflammation of the lung parenchyma that is caused by a viral infection .
demyelinating leukoencephalomyelitis of sheep caused by the visna - maedi virus .
infection of the vulva and vagina with a fungus of the genus candida .
a serious disorder characterized by massive adrenal gland hemorrhage secondary to a bacterial infection ,  most often neisseria meningitidis infection .
a rheumatic syndrome of possibly allergic origin ,  usually affecting children and adolescents ,  and characterized by high fever ,  exanthema ,  arthralgia ,  leukocytosis ,  and increased sedimentation rate .
an endemic ,  infectious ,  nonvenereal disease in humans that presents mainly in children younger than 15 years .
a syndrome typically consisting of angina  ( cardiac chest pain )  at rest that occurs in cycles .
an abnormally high acidity of the blood and other body tissues .
autosomal recessive form of disease .
a disease involving the urinary bladder .
a synovial sarcoma  ( disease )  that involves the breast .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the caecum
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the caecum
recurrent infections of the urinary bladder .
chronic form of sinusitis .
inflammation of the urinary bladder .
a neuroglial tumor that arises from the middle portion of the brain stem .
a carcinoma that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the presence of malignant cells with glandular and squamous differentiation .
a variant of gastric adenocarcinoma characterized by prominent dilated or slit - like tubules .
a slow - growing ,  malignant tumor ,  characterize by the presence of granulosa - like cells and call - exner bodies ,  that is almost always found in the ovary .
hydrolethalus  ( hls )  is a severe fetal malformation syndrome characterized by craniofacial dysmorphic features ,  central nervous system ,  cardiac ,  respiratory tract and limb abnormalities .
it describes patients in whom a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis or crohn's disease cannot be made based on standard clinical testing ,  including colonoscopy ,  imaging ,  laboratory tests ,  and biopsy .
a viral or bacterial infectious process affecting the large intestine .
metabolic acidosis characterized by the accumulation of lactate in the body .
a neuroendocrine neoplasm that arises from the lung .
a bacterial infection of the membranes covering the brain and the spinal cord caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis .
a group of invasive breast carcinomas characterized by the presence of an adenocarcinomatous component which is admixed with a dominant component that is composed of squamous cells ,  spindle cells ,  or mesenchymal cells .
hardening of the kidney due to infiltration by fibrous connective tissue  ( fibrosis )  ,  usually caused by renovascular diseases or chronic hypertension .
a malignant glandular epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of clear and hobnail cells .
a malignant serous cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the ovary .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the pancreas
a morphologic variant of lung adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of papillary structures .
a rare ,  aggressive ,  high grade invasive ductal carcinoma ,  not otherwise specified .
pig disease caused by porcine circovirus type 2  ( pcv2 )  .
a bacterial infection that affects the lungs and is caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis .
a leiomyoma that involves the kidney .
a benign or malignant ,  primary or metastatic neoplasm affecting the male and female reproductive system .
a neoplasm involving a sex cord .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the breast parenchyma and is entirely composed of squamous cells .
an embryonal neoplasm characterized by the presence of epithelial ,  mesenchymal ,  and blastema components .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the nasal cavity mucosa .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the nasopharynx .
a tear within the wall of any of the arteries of the neck  ( carotid artery or vertebral artery )  and that allows blood to separate the wall layers .
adult onset lactose intolerance
a variant of acinar prostate adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant cells with abundant xanthomatous appearing cytoplasm .
a usually aggressive morphologic variant of acinar adenocarcinoma of the prostate gland characterized by the presence of lakes of extracellular mucin .
an adenoma of the pituitary gland that produces corticotropin .
a rare ,  hormonally functioning or non - functioning pituitary gland adenocarcinoma that produces corticotropin .
a benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of connective tissue stroma and epithelial structures .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma primarily involving the breast .
a benign ,  slow growing neoplasm arising from tooth - forming tissues .
a carcinoma composed of malignant glandular cells and malignant squamous cells .
a benign soft tissue lesion arising from the adrenal gland .
a neuroblastoma arising from the adrenal gland .
a hyperplasia that involves the adrenal medulla .
a lymphoma  ( non - hodgkin or hodgkin )  arising from the central nervous system and occurring in hiv - positive patients .
a rare ,  cytologically malignant ameloblastoma that may metastasize .
a melanoma arising from the anus .
a squamous cell carcinoma  ( scc )  arising from the anal canal or the anal margin  ( perianal skin )  .
a lipoma with prominent vascularity .
a benign soft tissue neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic spindle and stellate cells in a myxoid stroma .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the vermiform appendix .
a circumscribed neoplasm arising from the glandular epithelium of the appendix .
an invasive mixed adenoneuroendocrine carcinoma of the appendix characterized by a submucosal growth and the presence of neoplastic signet - ring cells resembling goblet cells of the intestine .
a non - neoplastic polyp that arises from the appendix .
a well differentiated ,  low grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the appendix .
an adenoma arising from the appendix .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the ascending colon .
a primitive neuroectodermal tumor  ( small round blue cell tumor )  of the thorax which can involve the periosteum ,  thoracic wall and / or pleura though it spares the lung parenchyma .
a carcinoid tumor characterized by a high mitotic rate ,  often associated with the presence of necrosis and nuclear pleomorphism .
an endometrial hyperplasia characterized by cytologic and architectural changes which may lead to endometrial carcinoma .
an intermediate ,  locally aggressive lipomatous neoplasm .
lobular neoplasia characterized by lobular epithelial proliferation that does not completely fill the lobular unit of the breast .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic cells with hyperchromatic nuclei ,  small amount of cytoplasm ,  and peripheral nuclear palisading .
a sporadic or familial pheochromocytoma that is confined to the adrenal gland and does not have any metastatic potential .
a carotid body paraganglioma that is confined to the site of origin ,  without metastatic potential .
abnormal growth of the cells of the conjunctiva without malignant characteristics .
a benign mesenchymal neoplasm arising from smooth muscle tissue .
a benign neoplasm arising from the thyroid gland .
a benign ,  well - demarcated polypoid neoplasm arising from the bile duct epithelium .
a malignant neoplasm arising from mesothelial cells in the pleura .
a non - papillary neoplasm of the urinary bladder ,  whose classification categories include low - grade intraurothelial neoplasia and urothelial carcinoma in situ .
a multinodular intermediate fibroblastic neoplasm arising from the bladder .
an advanced phase of chronic myelogenous leukemia .
a header term that includes the following breast carcinoma subtypes determined by gene expression profiling: luminal a breast carcinoma ,  luminal b breast carcinoma ,  her2 positive breast carcinoma ,  basal - like breast carcinoma ,  triple - negative breast carcinoma ,  and normal breast - like subtype of breast carcinoma .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma that arises from the breast .
breast fibrocystic change characterized by the prominence of fibrotic changes in the parenchyma .
an extranodal marginal zone b - cell lymphoma of mucosa associated lymphoid tissue that arises from the breast as a primary tumor .
neoplastic or reactive proliferation of the c - cells in the thyroid gland .
a benign well - circumscribed paucicellular lesion arising from the soft tissues .
a rare malignant tumor that arises from the liver and occurs in children .
a well circumscribed benign tumor arising from cardiac muscle .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the cecum .
an anaplastic large cell lymphoma that affects the brain ,  meninges ,  or spinal cord .
a benign or malignant ,  primary or metastatic neoplasm that affects the brain ,  meninges ,  or spinal cord .
a rare ,  who grade ii cerebellar neoplasm which shows consistent neuronal ,  variable astrocytic and focal lipomatous differentiation .
a rare low grade carcinoma that arises from the cervix .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the cervix .
an uncommon carcinoma arising from the cervix .
a rare morphologic variant of cervical adenocarcinoma composed of clear and hobnail cells .
a neoplastic process in the cervix characterized by morphologic features of both moderate and severe intraepithelial neoplasia .
a rare ,  aggressive neuroendocrine carcinoma that arises from the cervix and is characterized by the presence of malignant cells with abundant cytoplasm ,  large nuclei ,  and prominent nucleoli .
metaplastic changes in the cervical glandular or squamous epithelium .
a rare ,  extremely well differentiated cervical mucinous adenocarcinoma in which most of the neoplastic glands cannot be distinguished from the normal endocervical glands .
a cervical adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a prominent villoglandular pattern .
a small cell carcinoma arising from the cervix .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the cervical epithelium .
an embryonal neoplasm arising from the cervix with morphologic features resembling wilms tumor of the kidney .
a slow - growing malignant bone tumor arising from the remnants of the notochord and occurring in the base of the skull .
a hamartoma that is characterized by the presence of chondroid elements .
a rare myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by a clonal proliferation of eosinophilic precursors resulting in persistently increased numbers of eosinophils in the blood ,  marrow and peripheral tissues .
a benign cystic glandular epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic clear or hobnail cells which form papillary structures .
a rare burkitt lymphoma that arises from the colon .
a morphologic finding indicating the presence of dysplastic glandular epithelial cells in the colonic mucosa .
a non - neoplastic polypoid lesion in the colon .
a non - neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the colon .
an extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue that arises from the colon .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the colon .
a polyp that arises from the colon .
an unusual colorectal carcinoma characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous carcinomatous components .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma that arises from the colon or rectum .
a gastrointestinal stromal tumor that arises from the colon or rectum .
a non - neoplastic ,  hamartomatous polyp that arises from the colon and rectum .
a non - neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the colon and rectum .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the colon or rectum .
a rare ,  invasive colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant infiltrate with serrated glandular architecture .
a polyp that arises from the colon or rectum .
a very rare colorectal carcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant squamous cell infiltrate .
a columnar cell lesion characterized by the presence of enlarged terminal ductal lobular units with dilated acini .
a lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of large or small neuroendocrine carcinoma cells in combination with malignant glandular or squamous epithelial cells .
a hyperplasia characterized by excessive proliferation of endometrial cells ,  resulting in the formation of complex epithelial structures .
any disorder of the conjunctiva .
a benign melanocytic neoplasm that arises from the conjunctiva .
a low - grade squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the conjunctiva .
an adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces cortisol .
a carcinoma characterized by the presence of a cribriform architectural pattern .
a solitary fibrous tumor characterized by the presence of areas of abrupt transition to high grade sarcoma .
an ameloblastoma with prominent desmoplastic stroma that causes compression of the neoplastic epithelial islands .
a sporadic or less frequently familial neoplasm ,  arising from the glandular epithelium of the stomach ,  small intestine ,  biliary tract ,  colon ,  and rectum .
a malignant neoplasm that arises from the epithelium of any part of the digestive system .
a carcinoma that arises from the digestive system and is characterized by the presence of a malignant glandular epithelial component and a malignant neuroendocrine component .
a rare ,  benign process that affects the peritoneal cavity and is characterized by the formation of multiple small nodules that are composed of well differentiated smooth muscle .
the co - existence of ductal and lobular carcinoma in situ in the breast ,  without evidence of stromal invasion .
a morphologic finding indicating the presence of typical or atypical proliferation of biliary epithelial cells in the portal tracts of the liver .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the duodenum .
a neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the duodenum .
an epstein - barr virus - associated mature t - cell lymphoproliferative group of disorders affecting children .
a carcinoma with eccrine differentiation arising from the sweat glands .
an aggressive epithelial neoplasm arising from the temporal bone .
a clear cell adenocarcinoma that involves the endometrium .
a primary endometrial adenocarcinoma composed of neoplastic cells that form complex glandular patterns associated with budding and branching of the neoplastic glands .
simple or complex endometrial hyperplasia characterized by the absence of epithelial atypia .
a primary ,  usually low grade adenocarcinoma of the endometrium in which the majority of the malignant epithelial cells contain abundant intracytoplasmic mucin .
a benign nodular lesion protruding above the surface of the endometrium .
a high grade ,  aggressive adenocarcinoma arising from the endometrium .
a primary carcinoma of the endometrium that is similar to the small cell carcinoma of the lung ,  histologically .
a primary carcinoma of the endometrium characterized by the presence of malignant squamous cells .
a primary carcinoma of the endometrium characterized by the presence of malignant cells that lack evidence of differentiation .
a uveal melanoma characterized by the presence of malignant large epithelioid melanocytes .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma that affects the ethmoid sinus .
a carcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a carcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the fallopian tube .
a carcinosarcoma that arises from the fallopian tube .
a serous adenocarcinoma that arises from the fallopian tube .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic fibroblasts .
a distinctive type of liver cell carcinoma that arises in non - cirrhotic livers and is seen predominantly in young patients .
a poorly circumscribed neoplasm arising from the soft tissues in infants .
a type of hyperplasia that is characterized by a marked thickening of the urinary tract epithelium .
a mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the oral cavity that arises from the floor of the mouth .
a nonencapsulated variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid gland characterized by the predominance of follicular structures .
a carcinoma that arises from glandular epithelial cells of the gall bladder .
a polypoid epithelial neoplasm that arises from the gallbladder .
a carcinoma that arises from the gallbladder .
a neoplastic ,  non - invasive lesion that affects the gallbladder epithelium .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the gallbladder .
a carcinoma that arises from the gallbladder .
a neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach .
a malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the stomach .
an extranodal diffuse large b - cell lymphoma that arises from the stomach with the bulk of the mass located in the stomach .
a non - neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the presence of connective tissue stroma overgrowth and cystic formations .
a mantle cell lymphoma that affects the stomach .
a low grade ,  indolent b - cell lymphoma ,  usually associated with helicobacter pylori infection .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the stomach .
a variant of gastric adenocarcinoma with exophytic growth and elongated finger - like processes lined by cylindrical or cuboidal cells supported by fibrovascular connective tissue cores .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the stomach .
a rare carcinoma of the stomach resembling squamous cell carcinomas arising elsewhere in the body .
a non - neoplastic ,  hamartomatous polyp that arises from the stomach ,  small intestine ,  and large intestine .
a painless ,  well circumscribed tumor arising in soft tissue ,  usually of the upper and lower extremities .
a teratoma that arises from the testis or ovary .
high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia characterized by the presence of severe architectural and cytologic abnormalities .
an unusual benign or malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic large polygonal cells with granular ,  eosinophilic cytoplasm which contains abundant lysosomes .
a tumor mass composed of myeloblasts ,  neutrophils and neutrophil precursors .
an adenoma of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that produces growth hormone .
a benign or malignant extra - adrenal paraganglioma arising from paraganglia in the head and neck .
a granuloma located in the liver .
an adenocarcinoma with morphologic characteristics similar to hepatocellular carcinoma ,  arising from an anatomic site other than the liver .
a biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by high expression of her2 ,  grb7 ,  and trap100 ,  and by lack of expression of estrogen receptor  ( er )  .
a carcinoma with apocrine and less often eccrine differentiation ,  arising from the sweat glands .
a usually aggressive high grade malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the surface of the bone .
rare tumors that affect the hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues .
a gestational trophoblastic disorder characterized by marked enlargement of the chorionic villi ,  hyperplasia of the villous trophoblastic cells and hydropic changes .
a polyp found mainly in the stomach and colon .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the ileum .
a rare benign neoplasm arising from the soft tissues of the digits ,  in young children .
an adenocarcinoma arising from epithelium which has undergone intestinal metaplasia .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the large blood vessels .
a carcinoma that infiltrates the breast parenchyma .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the jejunum .
a non - neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the stomach and intestinal tract .
a type of renal carcinoma affecting mostly young african - americans .
a adenoid cystic carcinoma that involves the lacrimal gland .
a rare adenoid cystic carcinoma of the larynx .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the larynx .
a sex cord - stromal tumor occurring in the testis and rarely in the ovary .
a hemangioma with cavernous vascular spaces arising from the liver .
a rare diffuse large b - cell lymphoma that arises from the liver and the bulk of the tumor is located in the liver .
a non - invasive adenocarcinoma of the breast characterized by a proliferation of monomorphic cells completely filling the lumina .
a low grade osteosarcoma arising from the medullary portion of the bone .
a low grade ,  late - metastasizing variant of fibrosarcoma characterized by alternating fibrous and myxoid areas and a whorling growth pattern .
a low grade fibromyxoid sarcoma characterized by the presence of prominent collagen rosettes .
an intraepithelial lesion of the vulvar squamous epithelium that represents the clinical and morphological manifestation of a productive hpv infection .
a morphologic variant of lung sarcomatoid carcinoma characterized by the presence of mononuclear and multinucleated pleomorphic neoplastic giant cells that lack cohesion .
an intermediate fibroblastic neoplasm arising from the lung .
lymphangiomyomatosis involving the lungs and local lymph nodes .
a benign papillary neoplasm that arises endobronchially .
a rare ,  aggressive ,  poorly differentiated ,  non - small cell lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of a sarcomatoid component often associated with giant cell differentiation .
a benign tumor that arises from the lung .
a morphologic variant of lung adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of signet ring cells .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the endothelial cells of the lymphatic vessels .
a morphologic variant of large cell lung carcinoma characterized by the presence of a syncytial growth pattern ,  large vesicular nuclei with esophnophilic nucleoi ,  and dense lymphoplasmacytic infiltration .
a carcinoma that arises from the parotid gland ,  submandibular gland ,  or sublingual gland .
a carcinoma that arises from a pleomorphic adenoma in the major salivary glands .
a carcinoma that arises from the major salivary glands .
a malignant tumor that arises from the bone .
a pheochromocytoma that metastasizes to other anatomic sites .
a gonadal or extragonadal malignant neoplasm that arises from germ cells .
a jugulotympanic paraganglioma that metastasizes to other anatomic sites .
a malignant neoplasm of the pleura or peritoneum ,  arising from mesothelial cells .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the pleura .
a primary or metastatic malignant tumor involving the urinary system .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma that arises from the maxillary sinus .
an extragonadal malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the mediastinum .
a rare malignant embryonal neoplasm arising from the cerebellum .
a benign ,  well - circumscribed renal cortical neoplasm affecting females more often than males .
an adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of complex micropapillary structures covered by round and cuboidal cells with a high nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio .
a rare squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the middle ear .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the minor salivary glands .
a breast carcinoma characterized by the presence of a lobular and a ductal component .
an infrequent pituitary gland adenoma composed of an admixture of acidophilic and chromophobic cells that produce growth hormone and prolactin respectively .
a variant of gastric adenocarcinoma with more than half of the tumor containing extracellular mucinous pools .
a category of clonal hematopoietic disorders that have both myelodysplastic and myeloproliferative features at the time of initial presentation .
a benign ,  localized ,  nodular and well - circumscribed neoplasm usually seen as a congenital neoplasm or in the first year of life .
a benign ,  mucus - filled cervical cyst that occurs when mucus - secreting columnar epithelial cells are covered with squamous epithelium .
a soft and painless polypoid mass that arises from the mucosa in the nasal cavity .
a group of nervous system tumors which display neuronal differentiation .
a benign neoplasm arising from nerve sheaths .
melanoma is a malignant tumor of melanocytes ,  cells that are derived from the neural crest .
an adenoma of the adrenal cortex characterized by the absence of a hormonal syndrome or symptoms suggestive of adrenal disease .
a non - neoplastic disorder that affects the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts .
a group of testicular cancers that begin in the germ cells  ( cells that give rise to sperm )  .
a biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by high expression of many genes expressed by adipose and other non - epithelial tissues .
a melanoma that arises from the structures of the eye or ocular adnexa .
a melanoma arising from and extending beyond the structures of the eye .
ocular sebaceous carcinoma is a rare condition and accounts for 1% to 5 .5% of eyelid malignancies and is the third most common eyelid malignancy after basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma .
a cyst in the jaw that arises from tissues of tooth development .
an olfactory neuroblastoma arising in the paranasal sinus .
a rare soft tissue tumor of uncertain lineage characterized by the presence of neoplastic spindle to round cells forming cords in a fibromyxoid stroma .
an endometrioid adenocarcinoma arising from the ovary .
an endometrioid adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and exhibits squamous differentiation .
a non - neoplastic disorder characterized by the growth of endometrial tissue in the ovaries .
a benign ,  unilateral tumor that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of conspicuous microcystic changes ,  cellular areas ,  and a fibrous stroma .
a benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of glands with serous epithelial cells in a fibrotic stroma .
a carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that resemble malignant urothelial cells .
a usually rapidly growing malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary .
a superficial fibromatosis arising from the soft tissue of the palm .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the pancreas .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
an aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
a benign ,  malignant ,  or borderline neoplasm characterized by the presence of papillary mucinous ,  serous ,  or clear cell structures and cystic structures .
a non - invasive or invasive transitional cell carcinoma characterized by a papillary growth pattern .
a rare ,  usually benign myoepithelial tumor characterized by the presence of epithelioid ,  often vacuolated neoplastic cells .
a rare adenoid cystic carcinoma that arises from the paranasal sinuses .
a papilloma that arises from the ciliated respiratory mucosa that lines the paranasal sinuses .
a hyperplasia that involves the parathyroid gland .
an adenocarcinoma with serous acinar cell differentiation that arises from the parotid gland .
an aggressive carcinoma that arises from the parotid gland .
a carcinoma that arises from a pleomorphic adenoma in the parotid gland .
an invasive squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the parotid gland .
a soft tissue neoplasm composed of perivascular epithelioid cells .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the penis
fibromatosis arising from the soft tissues of the penis .
a benign or malignant mesothelial neoplasm that arises from the peritoneum .
a cystic mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum and usually affects young to middle aged females .
a localized or multifocal mesothelioma arising from the peritoneum .
a hamartomatous polyp that occurs in the stomach ,  small and large intestines ,  and rarely within the esophagus ,  nasopharynx and the urinary tract .
a non - neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands ,  and hyperplasia with cystic dilatation of the foveolar epithelium .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma that arises from the pharynx .
an extremely rare ,  benign or malignant mesenchymal tumor arising from the soft tissues or bones .
a who grade ii or iii pineal parenchymal neoplasm of intermediate - grade malignancy ,  affecting all ages .
an extremely rare ,  who grade i ,  circumscribed and slow - growing tumor that arises from the neurohypophysis or infundibulum and described in adults .
a non - metastasizing tumor that arises from the adenohypophysial cells of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland .
choriocarcinoma that develops in the placenta .
a hemangioma arising from the fetal blood vessels in the placental villi .
a superficial fibromatosis arising from soft tissue of the plantar regions .
malignant mesothelioma that arises from the pleura .
malignant mesothelioma that arises from the pleura and is characterized by the presence of cells with epithelioid morphology .
malignant mesothelioma that arises from the pleura and is characterized by the presence of spindle - shaped cells forming fascicles ,  or that are distributed haphazardly resembling a sarcoma .
a histologic variant of solid / multicystic ameloblastoma characterized by the presence of basal cells forming anastomosing strands and cords in a delicate stroma .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the thyroid gland showing only limited evidence of follicular cell differentiation .
an aggressive primary cutaneous b - cell lymphoma ,  usually involving the lower leg .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises centrally from the jaw .
a rare ,  serous adenocarcinoma that diffusely involves the pelvic peritoneum seen predominantly in elderly postmenopausal women .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma that is localized to the lungs at the time of presentation .
a rare ,  hormonally functioning or non - functioning pituitary gland adenocarcinoma that produces prolactin .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm with skeletal muscle differentiation affecting the prostate .
a neuroendocrine carcinoma of the prostate gland with unfavorable prognosis ,  composed of small cells containing neurosecretory granules .
a rare neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach .
a serrated polypoid lesion that arises in the rectum .
an adenoma that arises from the rectum .
a usually polypoid neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the rectal mucosa .
a neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the rectal mucosa .
a neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the rectal mucosa .
a group of kidney carcinomas characterized by the presence of different translocations involving the chromosome xp11 .2 .
a multinodular intermediate fibroblastic neoplasm arising from the retroperitoneum .
a carcinoma of the salivary gland characterized by serous acinar cell differentiation .
a rare ,  aggressive carcinoma that arises from the salivary glands .
a rare adenocarcinoma of the major and minor salivary glands ,  originating from basaloid ,  myoepithelial and ductal cells .
a carcinoma that arises from a pleomorphic adenoma in the salivary glands .
a rare ,  highly aggressive carcinoma that arises from the salivary gland ,  predominantly the parotid gland .
an infrequent small cell carcinoma that arises from the salivary glands and is characterized by the presence of a high number of mitotic figures .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of spindle cells and anaplastic morphologic features .
a diffuse malignant mesothelioma arising from the pleura and less often the peritoneum .
a rare adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces androgens or estrogens .
a poorly cohesive gastric adenocarcinoma characterized by malignant cells containing intracytoplasmic mucin .
a proliferation of endometrial cells resulting in glandular enlargement and budding without changes in the basic structure of the endometrium .
a rare ,  highly aggressive carcinoma that arises from the sinonasal tract .
a rare disorder of unknown etiology characterized by distention of the lymph node sinuses and sinusoidal histiocytic infiltration .
a sarcoma that arises from the skin .
a burkitt lymphoma that arises from the small intestine .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma that arises from the small intestine .
an enteropathy - associated t - cell lymphoma arising from the small intestine ,  most commonly the jejunum or ileum .
a precancerous neoplastic process that affects the small intestine .
a mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma  ( malt )  that arises from the small intestine .
a usually polypoid neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the small intestine .
a neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the small intestine .
a benign neoplasm arising from the extraskeletal soft tissues near tendons and joints .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant neoplasm that arises from the soft tissue .
a central nervous system embryonal tumor ,  not otherwise specified arising from the spinal cord .
a melanoma characterized by the presence of malignant spindle - shaped melanocytes .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma occurring in the spleen .
a rare hodgkin lymphoma that arises from the spleen .
a mantle cell lymphoma occurring in the spleen .
wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the mesenchymal component .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the submandibular gland .
an aggressive carcinoma that arises from the submandibular gland .
synovial chondromatosis is a type of non - cancerous tumor that arises in the lining of a joint .
a small ,  slow growing ,  benign neoplasm arising from the tendon sheaths .
a teratoma which is characterized by morphologic transformation to malignancy and an aggressive clinical course .
a malignant germ cell tumor arising from the testis .
a malignant germ cell neoplasm arising from the testis .
a testicular germ cell tumor characterized by the absence of a seminomatous component .
a non - seminomatous germ cell tumor arising from the testis .
acute myeloid leukemias ,  myelodysplastic syndromes ,  and myelodysplastic / myeloproliferative neoplasms arising as a result of the mutagenic effect of chemotherapy agents and / or radiation that are used for the treatment of neoplastic or non - neoplastic disorders .
thymic carcinoma  ( tc )  is a type of thymic epithelial neoplasm characterized by a high malignant potential .
a rare ,  usually aggressive ,  primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of tumor cells morphologically resembling soft tissue sarcoma .
an aggressive ,  small cell ,  poorly differentiated thymic neuroendocrine carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of a high mitotic rate and numerous apoptotic bodies .
a rare primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by the presence of keratinizing or non - keratinizing malignant squamous cells .
a rare primary thymic carcinoma ,  characterized by an undifferentiated solid tumor growth ,  without associated sarcomatoid features .
a neoplasm arising from the epithelial cells of the thymus .
also known as well - differentiated thymic carcinoma ,  atypical thymoma ,  or epithelial thymoma ,  this type of thymoma displays morphologic characteristics of a well - differentiated carcinoma .
a thymic epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of expanded areas which resemble the normal thymic cortex .
a congenital benign cyst arising from the remnants of the thyroglossal duct .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma primarily involving the thyroid gland .
a primary ,  low grade carcinoma of the thyroid gland composed of groups of squamoid and mucous cells ,  surrounded by fibrous tissue .
an extranodal marginal zone b - cell lymphoma arising from mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue in the thyroid gland .
a follicular carcinoma of the thyroid gland ,  characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm and pleomorphic nuclei with prominent ,  eosinophilic nucleoli .
a rare ,  slow growing ,  primary carcinoma of the thyroid gland characterized by a lobulated architectural pattern and the presence of a biphasic cellular population composed of spindle epithelial cells and glandular cells .
a rapidly growing primary carcinoma of the thyroid gland composed of malignant squamous cells .
a primary carcinoma of the thyroid gland composed of undifferentiated cells .
an adamantinoma arising from the tibia .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the mucosal lining of the tonsil and tends to metastasize early to the lymph nodes .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma that arises from the trachea .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the transitional epithelium ,  usually affecting the urinary bladder ,  ureter ,  or renal pelvis .
a renal cell carcinoma characterized by morphologic features that do not fit easily into one of the other well - defined categories of renal cell carcinoma .
a carcinoma without evidence of differentiation arising from the gallbladder .
an aggressive carcinoma arising from the ovary .
a carcinoma with poor prognosis that arises from the pancreas .
a rare variant of undifferentiated pancreatic carcinoma characterized by the presence of non - neoplastic osteoclast - like giant cells .
an undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma characterized by the presence of numerous inflammatory cells .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the ureter .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the ureter .
a morphologic finding indicating the presence of dysplastic changes in the transitional cell epithelium of the urinary tract .
a neoplastic ductal proliferative lesion of the breast characterized by the formation of secondary lumens and prominent intraductal proliferation of a heterogeneous cellular population that may include epithelial cells ,  myoepithelial cells ,  or metaplastic apocrine cells .
a usually aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the uterine corpus and less often the cervix .
a melanoma derived from melanocytes of the uveal tract .
an adenoid cystic carcinoma that arises from the vagina .
an aggressive mixed epithelial and mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the vagina and is characterized by the presence of a malignant epithelial component and a malignant mesenchymal component .
a primary malignant neoplasm of the vagina composed of malignant melanocytes .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the vagina .
a chronic inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology that affects the vulva .
an adenoma characterized by an oncocytic ,  often papillary ,  epithelial component ,  dense lymphoid stroma ,  and cystic spaces .
a general term most often used to describe severe or complete loss of muscle strength due to motor system disease from the level of the cerebral cortex to the muscle fiber .
a group of disorders affecting the development of movement and posture ,  often accompanied by disturbances of sensation ,  perception ,  cognition ,  and behavior .
a polypoid adenoma that arises from and protrudes into the lumen of the colon .
a benign and excessive tumor - like growth of mature cells and normal tissues which grow in a disorganized pattern .
a benign vascular lesion characterized by the formation of capillary - sized or cavernous vascular channels .
inflammatory skin disorders covers a broad category that includes many conditions ranging in severity ,  from mild itching to grave medical health complications .
progressive and life - threatening pulmonary distress in the absence of an underlying pulmonary condition ,  usually following major trauma or surgery .
an instance of metabolic disease that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a pathological condition caused by impaired blood flow in the basal regions of cerebral hemispheres  ( basal ganglia )  ,  such as infarction ;  hemorrhage ;  or ischemia in vessels of this brain region including the lateral lenticulostriate arteries .
any one of a group of congenital hemolytic anemias in which there is no abnormal hemoglobin or spherocytosis and in which there is a defect of glycolysis in the erythrocyte .
an inherited metabolic disorder characterized by iron accumulation in the tissues .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm characterized by a papillary growth pattern .
genetic defects in the selective or non - selective transport functions of the kidney tubules .
a subtype of breast cancer that is estrogen - receptor positive
a subtype of breast cancer that is estrogen - receptor negative
moderate to severe atopic dermatitis with allergic sensitisation .
an acute inflammatory process that leads to necrosis of the pancreatic parenchyma .
progressive decline in muscle mass due to aging which results in decreased functional capacity of muscles .
a malignant tumor that occurs in children .
sporadic creutzfeldt - jakob disease  ( scjd )  is the most common type of cjd ,  accounting for around 85% of cases .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the rectum .
a rare disorder which affects the volar surfaces of fingers .
cutaneous eruptions resembling acne ,  characterized by the presence of papulonodules ,  pustules ,  comedones ,  or cysts in the face ,  trunk ,  and extremities .
focal or diffuse thickening of the skin not inherited as a primary genetic disorder .
an inflammatory skin condition affecting children .
an acrodermatitis characterized by a chronically progressive course ,  leading to widespread atrophy of the skin .
an inflammatory skin condition caused by an immune response to direct contact between the skin and an allergen .
a urticaria with a basis in a pathological type i hypersensitivity reaction .
lack of sweating or the ability to sweat when provoked by the appropriate stimulus .
a bacteria - induced exanthem
a pathologic process characterized by the proliferation of keratinizing squamous epithelium resulting in the accumulation of keratin and cells in the middle ear and / or mastoid .
a cholesteatoma in the attic
a cholesteatoma  ( disease )  that involves the external ear .
a non - neoplastic lesion characterized by the proliferation of keratinizing squamous epithelium in the middle ear that results in the accumulation of keratin and cells .
a type of physical urticarias  ( or hives )  that appears when a person is sweating .
an extremely rare autosomal recessive condition ,  characterized by an extreme scarcity of fat in the subcutaneous tissues .
pigmented lesions that arise from the conjunctiva include nevus ,  complexion - associated melanosis  ( cam )  ,  primary acquired melanosis  ( pam )  ,  and malignant melanoma .1 , 2all of these lesions arise from melanocytes .
a neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue .
a recurrent eczematous reaction characterized by the development of vesicular eruptions on the palms and soles ,  particularly along the sides and between the digits .
epidermolysis bullosa  ( eb )  is a group of genetic skin diseases that cause the skin to blister very easily .
a chronic autoimmune inflammatory disorder characterized by the formation of subepidermal blisters in the skin and the mucous membranes .
a genetic skin disorder caused by mutations in the type vii collagen gene  ( col7a1 )  .
a self - limited viral infectious disorder caused by the human parvovirus b19 .
erythema multiforme  ( em )  refers to a group ofhypersensitivity disorders characterized by symmetric red ,  patchy lesions ,  primarily on the arms and legs .
a skin condition that primarily affects the scalp and face and presents as scaly inflammation .
any change in the skin which affects its appearance or texture .
facial dermatosis ,  also known as facial dermatoses ,  is related tolipogranulomatosis .
a non - neoplastic polypoid lesion that arises from the anal canal or perianal skin .
a benign polypoid lesion of mesodermal origin that arises from the urethra .
a rare dermatologic disorder characterized by the accumulation of mucinous material in the hair follicles .
inflammation of the hair follicles .
fox - fordyce disease isa chronic skin diseasemost common in women aged 13 - 35 years .it is characterized by the development of intense itching in the underarm area ,  the pubic area ,  and around the nipple of the breast as a result of perspiration which becomes trapped in the sweat gland and surrounding areas .
granuloma annulare is a long - term  ( chronic )  skin disease consisting of a rash with reddish bumps arranged in a circle or ring .
an inflammatory reaction of the skin to various organic and inorganic antigens .
skin conditions characterised by dense infiltration of inflammatory cells  ( neutrophils )  in the affected tissue .
a hemangioma arising from the subcutaneous soft tissues .
a rare pregnancy - associated autoimmune skin disease that is characterised by an itchy rash that develops into blisters .
a chronic suppurative and cicatricial disease of the apocrine glands occurring chiefly in the axillae in women and in the groin and anal regions in men .
reduced sweating .causes include burns ,  dehydration ,  radiation ,  and leprosy .
under - production of pigment in the eyelid .
seborrheic keratosis that arises from follicular structures in the skin .
an inflammatory skin condition caused by direct contact between the skin and an irritating substance .
dermatitis herpetiformis in children
a skin disorder consisting of hypertrophy of the stratum corneum of the skin .
encephalopathy in infants due to high levels of unconjugated bilirubin that are a result of rh incompatibility between the mother and the fetus .
a nonspecific term used to denote any cutaneous lesion or group of lesions ,  or eruptions of any type on the leg .
a long - term skin condition that mainly affects the skin of the genitals .
a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by shiny ,  flat - topped ,  usually flesh - colored micropapules no larger than the head of a pin .
a chronic ,  recurrent ,  pruritic inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology that affects the skin and mucus membranes .
a congenital or acquired disorder characterized by abnormal loss or redistribution of the adipose tissue in the body .
a neoplastic process characterized by diffuse overgrowth of mature adipose tissue .
severe cellulitis of the submaxillary space with secondary involvement of the sublingual and submental space .
a rare ,  progressive ,  non - neoplastic pathologic process that arises from the maxillary sinus mucosal epithelium .
a neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue in the mediastinum .
a benign ,  darkly pigmented skin lesion characterized by proliferation of keratinocytes and melanocytes .
a small  ( one mm or less )  vesicular ,  papular or pustular monomorphous rash ,  which is associated with heat ,  fever or occlusion of sweat glands .
miliaria rubraor prickly heat occurs deeper in the epidermis  ( outside layer of skin )  and results in very itchy red papules  ( bumps )  .
a benign ,  flat ,  congenital birthmark ,  with wavy borders and an irregular shape .
necrobiosis lipoidica is a rare skin disorder of collagen degeneration .
jaundice that appears during the neonatal period .
skin findings arising from repeated rubbing ,  picking or scratching of a real or imagined irritation of the skin .
a condition in which patients produce skin lesions through repetitive ,  compulsive excoriation of their skin .
non - epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma is characterised by a diffuse non - epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma with frequent fungal infections .
contact dermatitis associated with allergens or irritants found in the workplace .
a group of autosomal dominant ,  autosomal recessive ,  x - linked inherited or acquired disorders characterized by the thickening of the palms and soles due to hyperkeratosis .
inflammation of the subcutaneous adipose tissue .
parapsoriasis describes a group ofskin diseases that can be characterized by scaly patches or slightly elevated papules and / or plaques  ( red ,  scaly patches )  that have a resemblance to psoriasis .
a neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue in the pelvic region .
pemphigus is a group of rare autoimmune diseases that cause blistering of the skin and mucous membranes  ( mouth ,  nose ,  throat ,  eyes ,  and genitals )  .this conditioncan occur at any age ,  but often strikes people in middle or older age .
jaundice in perinates due to cellular damange of liver .
a delayed hypersensitivity involving the reaction between sunlight or other radiant energy source and a chemical substance to which the individual has been previously exposed and sensitized .
abnormal responses to sunlight or artificial light due to extreme reactivity of light - absorbing molecules in tissues .
dermatitis caused or precipitated by exposure to ultraviolet sunlight ,  or by mediating phototoxic or photoallergic material in response to ultraviolet sunlight .
a distinct subgroup of the urticaria that are induced by an exogenous physical stimulus rather than occurring spontaneously .
a mild ,  self - limited skin disorder that is most commonly seen in children and young adults .
a clonal proliferation of abnormal keratinocytes characterized by the development of localized or multiple atrophic skin patches surrounded by an annular keratotic ring called cornoid lamella .
a benign ,  epidermal skin lesion characterized by overexpression of collagen during wound healing .
a chronic erythematous skin disorder that affects the face .
dermotosis of scalp
a usually benign and self - limited skin disorder of unknown etiology ,  characterized by induration of the skin .
a disease involving the sebaceous gland .
a chronic ,  inflammatory skin disorder that affects the scalp ,  central face and skin folds ;  it is characterized by scaling and itching .
excessive shedding of dry scaly material from the scalp in humans .
the degeneration and thinning of the epidermis and dermis .
formation of non - necrotizing granulomas in the skin .
a neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue in the face ,  upper middle back ,  and sternal region .
stromal pigmentation such as that in ochronosis results from chronic irritation .
a rare ,  benign ,  chronic disease characterized by sterile pustular eruption ,  typically involving the flexural sites of the trunk and proximal extremities .
a disease involving the sweat gland .
an allergic contact dermatitis caused by exposure to plants of the genus toxicodendron  ( formerly rhus )  .
skin diseases characterized by local or general distributions of blisters .
this very rare form of angioedema develops in reply to contact with vibration .
a virus - induced exanthem
a polypoid lesion that arises from the vulva and is characterized by the presence of fibrovascular stroma lined by squamous epithelium .
seborrheic keratosis that arises from follicular structures in the vulva .
a benign squamous neoplasm that arises from the vulva .
symptom of overactive detrusor muscle of the urinary bladder that contracts with abnormally high frequency and urgency .
multiple symptoms associated with reduced oxygen at high altitude .
a chronic ,  pathological complication associated with diabetes mellitus ,  where nerve damages are incurred due to diabetic microvascular injury involving small blood vessels that supply these nerves ,  resulting in peripheral and / or autonomic nerve dysfunction .
noninflammatory degenerative disease of the hip joint which usually appears in late middle or old age .
a degenerative joint disease involving the spine .
osteoarthritis of the foot generally affects the joint at the base of your big toe .
osteoarthritis of the hands usually happens as part of nodal osteoarthritis  ( a form of osteoarthritis that runs in families )  .
inflammation of the gallbladder in the absence of gallstones .
an epithelial neoplasm of the anterior pituitary gland in which the neoplastic cells stain positive with acidic dyes .
infections with bacteria of the genus acinetobacter .
infections with bacteria of the genus actinobacillus .
acute renal failure caused by the cell death of the renal tubules .
mild to fulminant necrotizing vaso - occlusive retinitis associated with a high incidence of retinal detachment and poor vision outcome .
a rare ,  usually large  ( greater than 5cm )  ,  malignant epithelial tumor arising from the adrenal cortical cells .
excess production of adrenal cortex hormones .
a complication of gastrojejunostomy  ( billroth ii procedure )  ,  a reconstructive gastroenterostomy .
an acute organic mental disorder induced by cessation or reduction in chronic alcohol consumption .
a dilated cardiomyopathy which is associated with consumption of large amounts of alcohol over a period of years .
a disorder of the liver characterized by the presence of fibrotic scar tissue instead of healthy liver tissue .
any disease affecting more than one nerve .
a benign ,  slow - growing neoplasm that arises from the dermis or subcutaneous tissue .
necrosis occurring in the anterior cerebral artery system ,  including branches such as heubner's artery .
rapid swelling ,  increased tension ,  pain ,  and ischemic necrosis of the muscles of the anterior tibial compartment of the leg ,  often following excessive physical exertion .
anterior ischemic optic neuropathy  ( aion )  is an eye disease characterized by infarction of the optic disk leading to vision loss .
ischemia or infarction of the spinal cord in the distribution of the anterior spinal artery ,  which supplies the ventral two - thirds of the spinal cord .
inflammation of the iris and anterior chamber of the eye .
myocardial infarction in which the anterior wall of the heart is involved .
fibrosis of the lung parenchyma caused by inhalation of carbon and silica dust .
a chronic lung disorder characterized by deposition of coal dust in the lung parenchyma leading to the formation of black nodules and emphysema .
the downward displacement of the cuspal or pointed end of the trileaflet aortic valve causing misalignment of the cusps .
inflammation of the aorta .causes include trauma ,  infectious disorders ,  and connective tissue disorders .
an autosomal recessive disorder caused by a deficiency of 11 - beta - hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase ,  which is characterized by hypertension ,  hypokalemia ,  low renin ,  and hypoaldosteronism .
the thickening of the wall of the small arteries and arterioles .
common occlusive arterial disease which is caused by atherosclerosis .
a localized vasculitis resulting from deposition of antibody - antigen complexes .
a condition due to a dietary deficiency of ascorbic acid  ( vitamin c )  ,  characterized by malaise ,  lethargy ,  and weakness .
inflammation of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord without a bacterial pathogen .
respiratory failure in the newborn .
interauricular communication is a congenital malformation characterized by a communication between the atrial chambers of the heart .
atrophic gastritis that is persistent and long - standing .
tissue degeneration and diminished size of the thyroid gland .
inflammation of the conjunctiva caused by a variety of bacterial agents .
endocarditis that is caused by an infection with a bacterial agent .
inflammation of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord due to a bacterial infection .
infections with bacteria of the genus bacteroides .
an infectious or non - infectious inflammatory process that affects the glans penis .
an epithelial neoplasm of the anterior pituitary gland in which the neoplastic cells stain positive with basic dyes .
a rare neoplasm ,  usually benign ,  derived from mesenchymal fibroblasts located in the submesothelial lining of the pleura .
beriberi is a condition that occurs in people who are deficient in thiamine  ( vitamin b1 )  .
retrograde bile flow .reflux of bile can be from the duodenum to the stomach  ( duodenogastric reflux )  ;  to the esophagus  ( gastroesophageal reflux )  ;  or to the pancreas .
a concretion in the urinary bladder .
blockage of the opening between the bladder and the urethra resulting in the reduction or prevention of the urine flow from the bladder into the urethra .
an intradermal nevus characterized by the presence of benign pigmented dendritic spindle - shaped melanocytes .
infections with bacteria of the genus borrelia .
an inflammatory process affecting the brachial plexus .
a brachial plexus disorder characterized by regional paresthesia ,  pain and muscle weakness ,  and limited movement in the arm or hand .
increased intracellular or extracellular fluid in brain tissue .
a disorder characterized by a reduction of oxygen in the blood combined with reduced blood flow  ( ischemia )  to the brain from a localized obstruction of a cerebral artery or from systemic hypoperfusion .
infarctions that occur in the brain stem which is comprised of the midbrain ;  pons ;  and medulla oblongata .
a condition characterized by a burning or tingling sensation on the lips ,  tongue ,  or entire mouth .
an occupational lung disorder caused by exposure to cotton dust .
a paraneoplastic syndrome comprising the signs and symptoms that occur secondary to carcinoid tumors .
blood clot formation in any part of the carotid arteries .
a central nervous system disorder caused by demyelination within the central basis pontis of the brain .
pathological conditions of intracranial arteries supplying the cerebrum .
atherosclerosis of the cerebral vasculature .
loss or destruction of the epithelial lining of the uterine cervix .
single or multiple ,  ovoid or irregular ,  solid particles that are formed from bile ,  cholesterol ,  and calcium in the gallbladder cavity .
presence or formation of gallstones in the common bile duct .
a malignant neoplasm involving the optic choroid .
an epithelial neoplasm of the anterior pituitary gland in which the neoplastic cells do not stain with acidic or basic dyes .
a rare neurological disorder in which there is inflammation of nerve roots and peripheral nerves and destruction of the fatty protective covering  ( myelin sheath )  over the nerves .
chronic form of interstitial cystitis .
conditions characterized by loss or dysfunction of myelin  ( see myelin sheath )  in the brain ,  spinal cord ,  or optic nerves secondary to autoimmune mediated processes .
infections with bacteria of the family bacteroidaceae .
infections with bacteria of the order bifidobacteriales .
infections with bacteria of the family desulfovibrionaceae .
tumor or cancer of the common bile duct including the ampulla of vater and the sphincter of oddi .
a disorder characterized by recurrent partial seizures marked by impairment of cognition .
a heart disorder in which the pericardial sac becomes thickened and fibrotic ,  tightening the myocardium and impeding the normal myocardial function .
hazy ,  swollen cornea .
new blood vessels originating from the corneal veins and extending from the limbus into the adjacent corneal stroma .
abnormal balloon -  or sac - like dilatation in the wall of coronary vessels .
narrowing of the coronary artery lumen diameter .
coagulation of blood in any of the coronary vessels .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm composed of fibrohistiocytic cells ,  spindle fibroblastic cells ,  and histiocytes ,  in a storiform pattern .
cutaneous lesions arising from infection with treponema pallidum .
neoplasms containing cyst - like formations or producing mucin or serum .
stenosing tenosynovitis of the abductor pollicis longus and extensor pollicis brevis tendons in the first dorsal wrist compartment .
a condition that results from excessive fluoride ingestion during tooth development ,  resulting in tooth discoloration ranging from white streaks to brown stains and cracks or pits in the tooth enamel .
inflammation of the mouth due to denture irritation .
a congenital or acquired abnormality characterized by elevation of the hemidiaphragm .
heart failure caused by abnormal myocardial relaxation during diastole leading to defective cardiac filling .
inflammation of an intervertebral disc or disk space which may lead to disk erosion .
a type of constriction that is caused by the presence of a fibrous ring  ( discrete type )  below the aortic valve ,  anywhere between the aortic valve and the mitral valve .
psychotic organic mental disorders resulting from the toxic effect of drugs and chemicals or other harmful substance .
an uncomfortable feeling of inner restlessness and inability to stay still .
abnormal movements ,  including hyperkinesis ;  hypokinesia ;  tremor ;  and dystonia ,  associated with the use of certain medications or drugs .
a syndrome characterized by dryness of the cornea and conjunctiva .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm arising from the wall of the duodenum .
retrograde flow of duodenal contents  ( bile acids ;  pancreatic juice )  into the stomach .
abnormal development of immature squamous epithelial cells of the uterine cervix ,  a term used to describe premalignant cytological changes in the cervical epithelium .
slow or difficult obstetric labor or childbirth .
a rare cutaneous tumor of eccrine sweat gland origin .
a transplantable ,  poorly differentiated malignant tumor which appeared originally as a spontaneous breast carcinoma in a mouse .
empty sella syndrome  ( ess )  is a condition that involves the sella turcica ,  a bony structure at the base of the brain that protects the pituitary gland .
localized atrophy of the brain parenchyma due to aging ,  hemorrhage ,  infarct ,  or inflammation .
thyroid gland enlargement caused by inadequate dietary iodine intake .
infection of the endocrine glands with species of mycobacterium ,  most often mycobacterium tuberculosis .
an accumulation of endolymph in the inner ear  ( labyrinth )  leading to buildup of pressure and distortion of intralabyrinthine structures ,  such as cochlea and semicircular canals .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that affects the uterine corpus ,  and rarely ,  the ovaries ,  cervix ,  and vagina .
a disease characterized by fibrotic thickening of the endocardium ,  particularly the right and / or left inflow tracts .
disease caused by the liberation of exotoxins of clostridium perfringens in the intestines of sheep ,  goats ,  cattle ,  foals ,  and piglets .
a variant of epilepsy characterized by continuous focal jerking of a body part over a period of hours ,  days ,  or even years without spreading to other body regions .
a melanoma characterized by the presence of malignant large epithelioid melanocytes and malignant spindle - shaped melanocytes .
infections with bacteria of the genus erysipelothrix .
a disease caused by infection with erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae .
a form of gram - negative meningitis that tends to occur in neonates ,  in association with anatomical abnormalities  ( which feature communication between the meninges and cutaneous structures )  or as opportunistic infections in association with immunologic deficiency syndromes .
a pathological condition characterized by the presence of a number of esophageal diverticula in the esophagus .
abnormal thyroid function tests ,  low triiodothyronine with elevated reverse triiodothyronine ,  in the setting of non - thyroidal illness .
impairment of the bile flow caused by an obstruction in the portion of the bile duct system located outside of the liver .
mycobacterium infections of the female reproductive tract  ( genitalia ,  female )  .
neuropathy of the femoral nerve .
a disorder of the fetus or newborn that occurs when fetal cells that are coated with igg alloantibodies from the mother attack antigens inherited from the father .
a disorder characterized by fibrous thickening of the arterial wall resulting in narrowing of the arterial lumen .
a condition occurring in the female offspring of dizygotic twins  ( twin ,  dizygotic )  in a mixed - sex pregnancy ,  usually in cattle .
inflammation or irritation of a bursa ,  the fibrous sac that acts as a cushion between moving structures of bones ,  muscles ,  tendons or skin .
meningitis caused by fungal agents which may occur as opportunistic infections or arise in immunocompetent hosts .
infections with bacteria of the genus fusobacterium .
impaired ambulation not attributed to sensory impairment or motor weakness .
dilatation of the vessels in the antrum of the stomach .
narrowing of the pyloric lumen caused either by hypertrophy of the surrounding muscles or tissue scarring due to a chronic peptic ulcer .
paralysis of the muscles of the stomach wall resulting in delayed emptying of the gastric contents into the small intestine .
a rare tumor - like lesion of the hands and feet characterized by the presence of hemorrhagic fibrous tissue ,  hemosiderin deposition ,  osteoclast - like giant cells which are irregularly distributed ,  and reactive bone formation .
inflammation of the tongue .
an x - linked recessive hepatic glycogen storage disease resulting from lack of expression of phosphorylase - b - kinase activity .
neoplasms composed of tissues of the ovary or the testis ,  not neoplasms located in the ovaries or testes .
three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions .
a benign condition affecting the dorsum of the tongue .
a benign melanocytic nevus with a halo appearance .
a localized bulging or dilatation in the muscle wall of a heart  ( myocardium )  ,  usually in the left ventricle .
a tick - borne septicemic disease of domestic and wild ruminants caused by ehrlichia ruminantium .
infections with organisms of the genus helicobacter ,  particularly ,  in humans ,  helicobacter pylori .
blood - filled uterus .
collection of air and blood in the pleural cavity .
a condition characterized as a coagulation disturbance in newborns due to vitamin k deficiency resulting in impaired production of coagulation factors ii ,  vii ,  ix ,  and x ,  and proteins c and s by the liver .
a systemic ,  usually self - limited immune complex vasculitis ,  characterized by immunoglobulin a deposition in the small vessels and kidneys .
a condition in which the hepatic venous outflow is obstructed anywhere from the small hepatic veins to the junction of the inferior vena cava and the right atrium .
a benign cystic proliferation of the sweat glands with apocrine or eccrine differentiation .
abnormal enlargement of the eye
abnormally high level of amylase in the blood .
a regressive change of teeth characterized by excessive development of secondary cementum on the tooth surface .
severe ,  intractable vomiting during pregnancy  ( usually the first trimester )  accompanied by dehydration ,  weight loss ,  and electrolyte imbalances .
purplish or brownish red discoloration of the skin associated with increase in circulating polyclonal globulins ,  usually gamma - globulins .
disease of the glandular ,  anterior portion of the pituitary  ( pituitary gland ,  anterior )  resulting in hypersecretion of adenohypophyseal hormones such as growth hormone ;  prolactin ;  thyrotropin ;  luteinizing hormone ;  follicle stimulating hormone  ;  and adrenocorticotropic hormone .
a small vessel vasculitis affecting the skin and / or internal organs .
overactive functioning of the spleen ,  resulting in excessive destruction of blood cells .
encephalopathy resulting from hypertension .
retinopathy due to hypertension .
a symptom complex resulting from ingesting excessive amounts of vitamin a .
a primary or metastatic neoplasm that affects the hypothalamus .
a form of apraxia characterized by an acquired inability to carry out a complex motor activity despite the ability to mentally formulate the action .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the wall of the ileum .
a syndrome characterized by abnormal secretion of antidiuretic hormone in conjunction with neoplastic growth occurring anywhere in the body .
myocardial infarction in which the inferior wall of the heart is involved .
an advanced ,  invasive breast adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of distinct changes in the overlying skin .
angina pectoris  ( or equivalent type of ischemic discomfort )  which has recently changed in frequency ,  duration ,  intensity ,  or occurs at rest .
inflammation of the pars plana .
a rupture in the wall of the small or large intestine due to traumatic or pathologic processes .
pathological conditions involving arteries in the skull ,  such as arteries supplying the cerebrum ,  the cerebellum ,  the brain stem ,  and associated structures .
blocking of a blood vessel in the skull by an embolus which can be a blood clot  ( thrombus )  or other undissolved material in the blood stream .
a finding characterized by increased cerebrospinal fluid pressure within the skull .
reduction of cerebrospinal fluid pressure characterized clinically by headache which is maximal in an upright posture and occasionally by an abducens nerve palsy  ( see abducens nerve diseases )  ,  neck stiffness ,  hearing loss  ( see deafness )  ;  nausea ;  and other symptoms .
constriction of arteries in the skull due to sudden ,  sharp ,  and often persistent smooth muscle contraction in blood vessels .
a nevus characterized by the proliferation of nevus cells in the dermis without involvement of the dermal - epidermal junction .
inflammation of the iris .
a malignant neoplasm involving the jejunum .
any disorder of the joints .
a low grade malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the surface of the bone .
a rare neurologic disorder occurring in infants with jaundice .
death of cells in the kidney cortex ,  a common final result of various renal injuries including hypoxia ;  ischemia ;  and drug toxicity .
a complication of kidney diseases characterized by cell death involving kidney papilla in the kidney medulla .
a sex chromosome disorder caused by the presence of an extra x chromosome in the male karyotype .
carcinoma having known association to krebs2 gene mutation
a prion disease found exclusively among the fore linguistic group natives of the highlands of new guinea .
a syndrome produced by severe protein deficiency ,  characterized by retarded growth ,  changes in skin and hair pigment ,  edema ,  and pathologic changes in the liver ,  including fatty infiltration ,  necrosis ,  and fibrosis .
a syndrome caused by an infarct in the vertebral or posterior inferior cerebellar artery .
an aggressive ,  progressive ,  and destructive lesion affecting the nasal cavities ,  paranasal sinuses ,  and the palate .
a hematology test result that indicates the presence of an increased white blood cell count and increased neutrophil precursors resembling leukemia ,  in a peripheral blood smear .
a precancerous condition characterized by the presence of abnormal whitish areas on the glans or prepuce of the penis .
a disorder involving the aberrant infiltration and aggregation of leukocytes into the vasculature of the body .
the least progressive form of systemic scleroderma with skin thickening restricted to the face ,  neck and areas distal to the elbows and / or knees ,  sparing the trunk .
pathological enlargement of the lingual thyroid ,  ectopic thyroid tissue at the base of the tongue .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the lip .
a glomerular disorder characterized by the electron microscopic finding of loss of podocyte foot processes .
inflammation of the meninges caused by listeria monocytogenes infection ,  usually occurring in individuals under the age of 3 years or over the age of 50 years .
a form of glaucoma in which chronic optic nerve damage and loss of vision normally attributable to buildup of intraocular pressure occurs despite prevailing conditions of normal intraocular pressure .
a form of cutaneous tuberculosis .
a condition characterized by a combination of ostium secundum atrial septal defect and an acquired mitral valve stenosis .
dilatation of the lymphatic vessels .
a lymphangioma characterized by the presence of collagen bundle formation .
a neoplasm with perivascular epithelioid cell differentiation ,  often associated with tuberous sclerosis .
a hole in the macula of the retina .
a nutritional condition produced by a deficiency of magnesium in the diet ,  characterized by anorexia ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  lethargy ,  and weakness .
mycobacterium infections of the male reproductive tract  ( genitalia ,  male )  .
severe hypertension that is characterized by rapid onset of extremely high blood pressure .
neoplasms composed of lymphoid tissue ,  a lattice work of reticular tissue the interspaces of which contain lymphocytes .
the lack of sufficient energy or protein to meet the body's metabolic demands ,  as a result of either an inadequate dietary intake of protein ,  intake of poor quality dietary protein ,  increased demands due to disease ,  or increased nutrient losses .
inflammation of breast tissue during lactation or postpartum due to an obstructed duct or infection .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the maxillary sinus .
a serious condition in which a newborn breathes a mixture of meconium  ( the first intestinal discharge )  and amniotic fluid into the lungs around the time of delivery .
a morphologic variant of chondrosarcoma arising from bone and soft tissue .
a term describing a soft tissue tumor which consists of two or more mesenchymal lines of differentiation ,  excluding a fibroblastic line of differentiation .
obstruction of the flow in the splanchnic circulation by atherosclerosis ;  embolism ;  thrombosis ;  stenosis ;  trauma ;  and compression or intrinsic pressure from adjacent tumors .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from mesothelial cells .
necrosis occurring in the middle cerebral artery distribution system which brings blood to the entire lateral aspects of each cerebral hemisphere .
a disease involving the mouth .
a benign or low malignant potential cystic epithelial neoplasm composed of cells which contain intracytoplasmic mucin .
a tumor mass composed of myeloblasts or immature myeloid cells .
muscular pain in numerous body regions that can be reproduced by pressure on trigger points ,  localized hardenings in skeletal muscle tissue .
an infiltrating malignant soft tissue neoplasm characterized by the presence of immature undifferentiated cells and abundant myxoid stroma formation .
a benign ,  inflammatory ,  variably ulcerated ,  occasionally bilateral ,  self - healing lesion of the minor salivary glands that is often confused clinically and histologically with carcinoma .
a bacterial infectious process affecting the gums .
a disorder of neuromuscular transmission that occurs in a minority of newborns born to women with myasthenia gravis .
loss or absence of normal intestinal function due to nerve damage or birth defects .
goiter characterized by discrete tissue mass ( es )  that may or may not produce thyroid hormones .
a highly malignant choriocarcinoma derived from the non - placental origin such as the totipotent cells in the testis ,  the ovary ,  and the pineal gland .
allergic reaction to tree nuts that is triggered by the immune system .
a condition produced by dietary or metabolic deficiency .
a finding indicating increased bilirubin levels in the blood and urine ,  due to intrahepatic or extrahepatic obstruction of the biliary system .
abnormally high intraocular pressure .
tuberculous infection of the eye ,  primarily the iris ,  ciliary body ,  and choroid .
inflammation of the ovary ,  generally caused by an ascending infection of organisms from the endocervix .
infections with bacteria of the family moraxellaceae .
swelling of the optic disk ,  usually in association with increased intracranial pressure ,  characterized by hyperemia ,  blurring of the disk margins ,  microhemorrhages ,  blind spot enlargement ,  and engorgement of retinal veins .
a disorder of the buccal mucosa resembling early leukoplakia ,  characterized by the presence of filmy opalescence of the mucosa in the early stages to a whitish gray cast with a coarsely wrinkled surface in the later stages ,  associated with intracellular edema of the spinous or malpighian layer .
inflammation of the eye tissues posterior to the orbital septum ,  and generally secondary to an infection spread from adjacent sinuses .
inflammation of one or both testes due to viral or bacterial infections .
a malignant neoplasm originating from the apical lung .
acute suppurative inflammation of the inner eye with necrosis of the sclera  ( and sometimes the cornea )  and extension of the inflammation into the orbit .
a thyroid neoplasm of mixed papillary and follicular arrangement .
inflammation of the parametrium ,  the connective tissue of the pelvic floor ,  extending from the subserous coat of the uterus laterally between the layers of the broad ligament .
a diffuse or multifocal peripheral neuropathy caused by the effects of a distant neoplasm .
a condition in which the foreskin of an uncircumcised male is retracted and cannot be pulled back over the glans penis .
a benign tumor arising from the parenchymal cells of the parathyroid glands .
a simple partial seizure consisting of clonus or spasm of a muscle or muscle group ;  it may be single or in a continuous and repetitive series or may spread to adjacent muscles .
a disorder characterized by recurrent focal onset seizures which have sensory  ( i .e . ,  olfactory ,  visual ,  tactile ,  gustatory ,  or auditory )  manifestations .
any of several bacterial diseases ,  usually caused by pasteurella multocida ,  marked by the presence of hemorrhagic areas in the subcutaneous tissues ,  serous membranes ,  muscles ,  lymph glands ,  and throughout the internal organs .
a syndrome characterized by retropatellar or peripatellar pain resulting from physical and biochemical changes in the patellofemoral joint .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant neoplasm that affects the penis .
inflammation of the esophagus that is caused by the reflux of gastric juice with contents of the stomach and duodenum .
chronic nonsuppurative inflammation of periapical tissue resulting from irritation following pulp disease or endodontic treatment .
inflammation of the tissues around a joint .
inflammation of the gingiva surrounding the crown of a tooth .
inflammation of the connective and adipose tissues surrounding the kidney .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the peritoneal cavity .
paralysis of the nerves located in the legs .
a condition in which there is constriction in the tip of the foreskin resulting in inability to fully retract the foreskin over the glans penis .
a benign ,  small and slightly elevated brown or black skin lesion with usually well - demarcated borders .
pigmented villonodular synovitis  ( pvns )  is a rare benign proliferative disorder of the synovial membrane primarily affecting young adults  ( with a peak age of onset in the second to fourth decade of life )  characterized by proliferative ,  locally invasive tumor - like lesions ,  usually involving a single joint ,  tendon sheath or bursae  ( most commonly the joints of the knee and hip and rarely others such as the ankle ,  shoulder and temporomandibular joints )  .
a benign ,  small ,  papular or nodular skin neoplasm that usually arises above the upper lip .
a rare ,  potentially life - threatening disorder caused by acute ischemic infarction or hemorrhage in the pituitary gland .
proportionately decreased bodily growth due to failure of the pituitary gland to produce an adequate supply of growth hormone .
the presence of gas within the wall of the large or small intestine .
an acute purulent infection of the meninges and subarachnoid space caused by streptococcus pneumoniae ,  most prevalent in children and adults over the age of 60 .
diseases characterized by injury or dysfunction involving multiple peripheral nerves and nerve roots .
abdominal symptoms after removal of the gallbladder .
necrosis induced by ischemia in the posterior cerebral artery distribution system which supplies portions of the brain stem ;  the thalamus ;  temporal lobe ,  and occipital lobe .
inflammation of the choroid as well as the retina and vitreous body .
a condition due to decreased dietary intake of potassium ,  as in starvation or failure to administer in intravenous solutions ,  or to gastrointestinal loss in diarrhea ,  chronic laxative abuse ,  vomiting ,  gastric suction ,  or bowel diversion .
a condition in which blood glucose levels are high ,  but not high enough to be classified as type 2 diabetes .
infections with bacteria of the order actinomycetales .
infections with bacteria of the family anaplasmataceae .
infections with bacteria of the family bacillaceae .
infections with bacteria of the family bartonellaceae .
infections with bacteria of the family fusobacteriaceae ,  in the order fusobacterales ,  phylum fusobacteria .
infections with bacteria of the genus haemophilus .
infections with bacteria of the family rickettsiaceae .
vitreoretinal membrane shrinkage or contraction secondary to the proliferation of primarily retinal pigment epithelial cells and glial cells ,  particularly fibrous astrocytes ,  followed by membrane formation .
infections with bacteria of the genus proteus .
a condition affecting cranial nerves ix - xii resulting from upper motor neuron damage arising from a variety of causes .
a single lung lesion that is characterized by a small round mass of tissue ,  usually less than 1 cm in diameter ,  and can be detected by chest radiography .
accumulation of fluid in the lung tissues causing disturbance of the gas exchange that may lead to respiratory failure .
a tumor - like inflammatory lesion of the lung that is composed of plasma cells and fibrous tissue .
the obstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract that originates within the body of the right ventricle ,  that exists at the time of birth ;  it often occurs in association with other intracardiac anomalies .
the pathologic narrowing of the orifice of the pulmonary valve .
inflammation of the dental pulp .
inflammation of the renal pelvis .
an inflammatory process affecting the kidney .
a peripheral nerve lesion that involves the radial nerve .
an infectious disease that is caused transmitted by the bite of a rat .
a group of inherited kidney disorders characterized by the abnormally elevated levels of amino acids in urine .
narrowing or occlusion of the renal artery or arteries .
abnormalities of bone mineral metabolism associated with chronic kidney disease .
high blood pressure secondary to renal artery stenosis .
an occlusion of the retinal artery .
colloid or hyaline bodies lying beneath the retinal pigment epithelium .
inflammation of the retinal vasculature with various causes including infectious disease ;  lupus erythematosus ,  systemic ;  multiple sclerosis ;  behcet syndrome ;  and chorioretinitis .
an occlusion of the retinal vein .
a bilateral retinopathy characterized by neovascularization ,  scarring ,  retinal detachment ,  and eventually blindness .
the mother develops antibodies against red blood cell rhesus antigens .
an autoinflammatory condition following an infection with group a beta hemolytic streptococcus  ( gabhs )  ,  in which the heart is attacked by antibodies formed in reaction to a recent gabhs infection .
a group of infectious diseases that is caused by rickettsia .
dental caries involving the tooth root ,  cementum ,  or cervical area of the tooth .
disease or damage involving the sciatic nerve ,  which divides into the peroneal nerve and tibial nerve  ( see also peroneal neuropathies and tibial neuropathy )  .
a fatal disease of the nervous system in sheep and goats ,  characterized by pruritus ,  debility ,  and locomotor incoordination .
an adenocarcinoma with sebaceous differentiation .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the sebaceous glands .
overproduction of parathyroid hormone in response to influence external to the parathyroid glands .
symmetrical osteitis of the four limbs ,  chiefly localized to the phalanges and the terminal epiphyses of the long bones of the forearm and leg ,  sometimes extending to the proximal ends of the limbs and the flat bones ,  and accompanied by dorsal kyphosis and joint involvement .
a condition with a clinical picture similar to that of parkinson disease ,  but which is caused by external factors ,  including medication .
compression of the rotator cuff tendons and subacromial bursa between the humeral head and structures that make up the coracoacromial arch and the humeral tuberosities .
sialadenitis is an infection of the salivary glands .
a concretion in the salivary gland .
tumors or cancer of the sigmoid colon .
a form of alveolitis or pneumonitis caused by hypersensitivity to high level of inhaled nitrogen oxides ,  decomposition products of silage .
a carcinoma arising from the sebaceous glands ,  sweat glands ,  or the hair follicles .
a sarcoma characterized by the presence of small round or elongated malignant cells with a small amount of cytoplasm .
a benign or malignant myomatous neoplasm arising from smooth muscle .
a rare ,  usually malignant neuroendocrine tumor arizing from delta cells .
a benign testicular cyst that is located in the epididymis ,  and which contains serous fluid ,  lymphocytes ,  spermatozoa ,  and debris .
insufficiency of arterial or venous blood supply to the spleen due to emboli ,  thrombi ,  vascular torsion ,  or pressure that produces a macroscopic area of necrosis .
a disease of cats and mink characterized by a marked inflammation of adipose tissue and the deposition of 'ceroid' pigment in the interstices of the adipose cells .
an ovarian mature teratoma characterized by the presence of aberrant thyroid tissue .
subacute inflammation of the endocardium .
self - limited inflammation of the thyroid gland characterized by the presence of multinucleated giant cells .
an uncommon neurovascular condition seen with exertion of the upper extremity .
an intracranial or rarely intraspinal suppurative process invading the space between the inner surface of the dura mater and the outer surface of the arachnoid .
an enlarged thyroid gland with at least 50% of the gland situated behind the sternum .
an aortic stenosis caused by fibromuscular stenosis or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
a morbid condition due to the presence of sulfmethemoglobin in the blood .
localized collection of pus in the tissues that enclose the root of a tooth .
intraocular infection caused mainly by pus - producing bacteria and rarely by fungi .
cardiovascular manifestations of syphilis ,  an infection of treponema pallidum .
heart failure caused by abnormal myocardial contraction during systole leading to defective cardiac emptying .
tarsal tunnel syndrome is a nerve disorder that is characterized by pain in the ankle ,  foot ,  and toes .
a progressive neurological disorder characterized by the limitation of movement of the spinal cord within the spine .
acute onset of severe ,  life - threatening hyperthyroidism caused by a sudden release of excessive thyroid hormone .
disease of the tibial nerve  ( also referred to as the posterior tibial nerve )  .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the tonsil .
a disease involving the calcareous tooth .
an disease caused by infection with treponema .
abnormal protrusion of one or more of the leaflets of tricuspid valve into the right atrium during systole .
a disease involving the trochlear nerve .
group of diseases mediated by the deposition of large soluble complexes of antigen and antibody with resultant damage to tissue .
inflammation of the rectum and the distal portion of the colon .
disease involving the ulnar nerve from its origin in the brachial plexus to its termination in the hand .
infections with bacteria of the genus ureaplasma .
a clinical syndrome associated with the retention of renal waste products or uremic toxins in the blood .
the presence of a calculus in the ureter of the kidney ;  this is most often composed of mineral salts and proteins .
a manifestation of sarcoidosis marked by chronic inflammation of the parotid gland and the uvea .
a form of creutzfeldt - jakob disease that is most commonly contracted after consuming meat from an animal suffering from bovine spongiform encephalopathy .
inability to achieve and maintain an erection  ( erectile dysfunction )  due to defects in the arterial blood flow to the penis ,  defect in venous occlusive function allowing blood drainage  ( leakage )  from the erectile tissue  ( corpus cavernosum penis )  ,  or both .
infections with bacteria of the genus vibrio .
inflammation of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord due to a viral infection .
deficiency of vitamin a due to malnutrition ,  malabsorption ,  or dietary lack .
detachment of the vitreous humor from the retina .
inflammation of the vulva .it is characterized by pruritus and painful urination .
an inflammatory pathologic process that affects the vulva and the vagina .
an acute neurological disorder characterized by the triad of ophthalmoplegia ,  ataxia ,  and disturbances of mental activity or consciousness .
allergic reaction to wheat that is triggered by the immune system .
chronic ,  destructive infection of the kidney characterized by lipid - laden macrophages in the setting of obstruction secondary to infected renal stones ,  most commonly caused by proteus or escherichia coli .
infections with bacteria of the genus yersinia .
infections with bacteria of the species yersinia pseudotuberculosis .
the primary sore of syphilis ,  a painless indurated ,  eroded papule ,  occurring at the site of entry of the infection .
fatty replacement and damage to the hepatocytes not related to alcohol use .
tear of one or more of the tendons of the four rotator cuff muscles of the shoulder .
branchiootorenal  ( bor )  syndrome is characterized by branchial arch anomalies  ( branchial clefts ,  fistulae ,  cysts )  ,  hearing impairment  ( malformations of the auricle with pre - auricular pits ,  conductive or sensorineural hearing impairment )  ,  and renal malformations  ( urinary tree malformation ,  renal hypoplasia or agenesis ,  renal dysplasia ,  renal cysts )  .
an instance of abdominal aortic aneurysm that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
prune belly syndrome is a rare congenital disorder ,  belonging to the group of fetal lower urinary tract obstructions  ( luto )  ,  involving variable dilation of the lower urinary tract in association with partial or complete absence of the lateral and inferior abdominal wall musculature and in males bilateral non - palpable undescended testes .
paralysis of the abducens nerve .
adams - oliver syndrome  ( aos )  is a rare disorder characterized by the combination of congenital limb abnormalities and scalp defects ,  often accompanied by skull ossification defects .
a melanotic cutaneous lesion that develops in the axilla and other body folds .
a rare genetic syndrome featuring connective tissue abnormalities .
achondroplasia is the most common form of chondrodysplasia ,  characterized by rhizomelia ,  exaggerated lumbar lordosis ,  brachydactyly ,  and macrocephaly with frontal bossing and midface hypoplasia .
neurofibromatosis type 2  ( nf2 )  is a tumor - prone disorder characterized by the development of multiple schwannomas and meningiomas .
an acrocephalosyndactylia characterized by abnormalities in the bones of the legs ,  congenital heart defects and craniofacial defects and craniosynostosis .
apert syndrome  ( as )  is a frequent form of acrocephalosyndactyly ,  a group of inherited congenital malformation disorders ,  characterized by craniosynostosis ,  midface hypoplasia ,  and finger and toe anomalies and / or syndactyly .
saethre - chotzen syndrome  ( scs )  is an inherited craniosynostosis syndrome characterized by unilateral or bilateral coronal synostosis ,  facial asymmetry ,  ptosis ,  strabismus and small ears with prominent crus ,  among other less common manifestations .
pfeiffer syndrome  ( ps )  is a common form of acrocephalosyndactyly ,  a group of inherited congenital malformation disorders ,  characterized by variable degrees of bicoronal craniosynostosis ,  variable hand and foot malformations and various other associated manifestations .
an autosomal dominant skeletal dysplasia caused by mutation ( s )  in the prkar1a gene ,  encoding camp - dependent protein kinase type i - alpha regulatory subunit .
acrofacialdysostosis ,  catania type is a very rare type of acrofacialdysostosis characterized by mild intrauterine growth retardation  ( iugr )  ,  postnatal short stature ,  microcephaly ,  widow's peak ,  mandibulofacial dysostosis without cleft palate ,  frequent caries ,  mild pre -  and postaxial limb hypoplasia with brachydactyly ,  mild interdigital webbing ,  simian creases ,  inguinal hernia and cryptorchidism and hypospadias in males .
a keratosis of the hands and feet characterized by persistent ,  asymptomatic ,  yellowish to white papules and plaques associated with fine - textured scalp hair and an atopic diathesis .
acrokeratoelastoidosis of costa is a rare dermatosis characterized by small ,  firm papules or plaques  ( resembling warts )  on the sides of the hands and feet .
a rare genetic skin keratinization disorder with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance .
acromegaloid facial appearance  ( afa )  syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome with a probable autosomal dominant inheritance ,  characterized by a progressively coarse acromegaloid - like facial appearance with thickening of the lips and intraoral mucosa ,  large and doughy hands and ,  in some cases ,  developmental delay .
acromicric dysplasia is a rare bone dysplasia characterized by short stature ,  short hands and feet ,  mild facial dysmorphism ,  and characteristic x - ray abnormalities of the hands .
a condition that is characterized by degeneration of the distal phalanges .
acroosteolysis dominant type  ( aod )  is a rare genetic osteolysis syndrome characterized by acroosteolysis of distal phalanges and generalized osteoporosis ,  associated with additional ossification anomalies ,  craniofacial dysmorphism ,  dental anomalies and a wide range of other characteristics .
acropectorovertebral dysplasia is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by fusion of the carpal and tarsal bones ,  with complex anomalies of the fingers and toes  ( preaxial polydactyly of the hands and / or feet ,  syndactyly of fingers and toes ,  hypoplasia and dysgenesis of metatarsal bones )  .
acrorenal syndrome comprises a wide spectrum of congenital malformative disorders characterized by the co - occurrence of distal limb anomalies  ( usually bilateral cleft feet and / or hands )  and renal defects  ( e .g .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spata16 gene .
unilateral adactylia is a terminal transverse defect of the hand characterized by the absence of the terminal portions of digits 2 to 5 with a hypoplastic thumb  ( adactylia )  .
a adamantinoma that involves the long bone .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  due to adenosine deaminase  ( ada )  deficiency is a form of scid characterized by profound lymphopenia and very low immunoglobulin levels of all isotypes resulting in severe and recurrent opportunistic infections .
autosomal dominant phenotype characterized by increase of red blood cell atp .
adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency  ( adsl deficiency )  is a disorder of purine metabolism characterized by intellectual disability ,  psychomotor delay and / or regression ,  seizures ,  and autistic features .
adiposis dolorosa or dercum's disease is characterised by the development of multiple ,  painful ,  subcutaneous lipomas in association with obesity ,  asthenia and fatigue ,  and range of mental disturbances including instability ,  depression ,  confusion ,  dementia and epilepsy .
adult  ( acro - dermo - ungual - lacrimal - tooth )  syndrome is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by ectrodactyly ,  syndactyly ,  mammary hypoplasia ,  and excessive freckling as well as other typical ectodermal defects such as hypodontia ,  lacrimal duct anomalies ,  hypotrichosis ,  and onychodysplasia .
hanhart syndrome is a rare condition that primarily affects the craniofacial region and the limbs  ( arms and legs )  .
spontaneous autoamputation of a digit ,  usually the fifth toe .
tietz syndrome is a genetic hypopigmentation and deafness syndrome characterized by congenital profound bilateral sensorineural hearing loss and generalized albino - like hypopigmentation of skin ,  eyes and hair .
pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1a  ( php1a )  is a type of pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php )  characterized by renal resistance to parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  ,  resulting in hypocalcemia ,  hyperphosphatemia ,  and elevated pth ;  resistance to other hormones including thydroid stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  ,  gonadotropins and growth - hormone - releasing hormone  ( ghrh )  ;  and a constellation of clinical features known as albright hereditary osteodystrophy  ( aho )  .
physical and psychological dependence on alcohol .
familial hyperaldosteronism type i  ( fh - i )  is a rare heritable ,  glucocorticoid remediable form of primary aldosteronism  ( pa )  characterized by early - onset hypertension ,  hyperaldosteronism ,  variable hypokalemia ,  low plasma renin activity  ( pra )  ,  and abnormal production of 18 - oxocortisol and 18 - hydroxycortisol .
autosomal dominant palmoplantar keratoderma with congenital alopecia  ( ppk - ca )  is a rare genetic skin disorder characterized by absence of scalp and body hair and palmoplantar keratoderma ,  without other hand complications .
alopecia - epilepsy - pyorrhea - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by congenital permanent alopecia universalis ,  intellectual disability ,  psychomotor epilepsy and periodontitis  ( pyorrhea )  .
autosomal dominant alport syndrome isa genetic condition characterized by kidney disease ,  hearing loss ,  and eye abnormalities .
any alternating hemiplegia of childhood in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atp1a2 gene .
an alzheimer's disease that is characterized by an association of the apolipoprotein e e4 allele .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the enam gene .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dlx3 gene .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lamb3 gene .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  ,  icelandic type is a form of hchwa characterized by an age of onset of 20 - 30 years ,  systemic amyloidosis and recurrent lobar intracerebral hemorrhages .
familial amyloid polyneuropathy  ( fap )  or transthyretin  ( ttr )  amyloid polyneuropathy is a progressive sensorimotor and autonomic neuropathy of adulthood onset .
primary cutaneous amyloidosis is a form of amyloidosis ,  a group of conditions in which an abnormal protein  ( called amyloid )  builds up in various organs and tissues throughout the body .
any frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c9orf72 gene .
a carcinoma that arises from epithelial cells of the anal canal
congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type iii  ( cda iii )  is a rare form of cda characterized by dyserythropoiesis ,  with big multinucleated erythroblasts in the bone marrow ,  and manifesting with mild to moderate anemia .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rps19 gene .
interventricular septum aneurysm is a rare ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital heart malformation characterized by the presence of a congenital aneurysm of the membranous portion of the interventricular septum .
angelman syndrome  ( as )  is a neurogenetic disorder characterized by severe intellectual deficit and distinct facial dysmorphic features .
angel - shaped phalango - epiphyseal dysplasia  ( asped )  is a form of acromelic dysplasia characterized by the distinctive radiological sign of angel - shaped middle phalanges ,  a typical metacarpophalangeal pattern profile  ( mainly affecting first metacarpals and middle phalanges of second ,  third and fifth digits ,  which all appear short )  ,  epiphyseal changes in the hips and ,  in some ,  abnormal dentition and delayed bone age .
hereditary neurocutaneous angioma is characterised by the association of cerebral and cutaneous angiomatous lesions .
any anhidrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the itpr2 gene .
isolated aniridia is a congenital bilateral ocular malformation characterized by the complete or partial absence of the iris .
aniridia - absent patella is a syndrome described in three members of a family  ( a boy ,  his father ,  and his paternal grandmother )  that is characterized by the association of aniridia with patella aplasia or hypoplasia .
unequal pupil size ,  which may represent a benign physiologic variant or a manifestation of disease .
ankyloblepharon - ectodermal defects - cleft lip / palate  ( aec )  syndrome is an ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with defining features of ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum  ( afa )  ,  ectodermal abnormalities and a cleft lip and / or palate .
a developmental abnormality in which the bottom of the tongue is attached to the floor of the mouth .
any spondyloarthropathy ,  susceptibility to in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hla - b gene .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of ankylosing vertebral hyperostosis with hyperkeratosis of the soles and palms .
any tooth agenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the msx1 gene .
total pulmonary venous return  ( tapvr )  is a form of congenital pulmonary venous return where all of the pulmonary veins drain into the right atrium or one of its tributaries ,  instead of the left atrium ,  leading to various manifestations such as fatigue ,  exertional dyspnea ,  pulmonary arterial hypertension ,  cyanosis and progressive congestive heart failure .
anonychia with flexural pigmentation is characterised by anonychia and skin abnormalities  ( hyper -  and hypopigmentation in axillae and groins ,  dry palmar and plantar skin leading to sore and cracked soles )  .
cooks syndrome is a malformation syndrome affecting the apical structures of digits and presenting with hypo / aplasia of nails and distal phalanges .
this syndrome is characterised by total or partial anosmia at birth .
a disorder caused by the presence of autoantibodies directed against phospholipids ,  causing a hypercoaguable state ,  which may result in blood clots ,  stroke ,  heart attack ,  and in women ,  significant pregnancy - related complications ,  including miscarriage and still birth .
townes - brocks syndrome  ( tbs )  is a rare genetic disorder characterized by the triad of imperforate anus ,  dysplastic ears often associated with sensorineural and / or conductive hearing impairment ,  and thumb malformations .
aortic arch anomaly - peculiar facies - intellectual disability syndrome is a developmental anomaly characterized at birth by the presence of right - sided aortic arch ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  asymmetric ,  facial bones ,  broad forehead ,  borderline hypertelorism ,  nasal septum deviation ,  large nasal cavity ,  large ,  posteriorly rotated ears ,  and microstomia with downturned corners )  ,  and intellectual disability .
aplasia cutis congenita  ( acc )  is a rare skin disorder characterized by localized absence of skin that is usually located on the scalp but can occur anywhere on the body including the face ,  trunk and extremities .
cessation of air flow during sleep due to upper airway obstruction .
a corneal disease in which there is a deposition of phospholipid and cholesterol in the corneal stroma and anterior sclera .
any arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tgfb3 gene .
cerebral arteriovenous malformation  ( avm )  is a congenital malformative communication between the veins and the arteries in the brain in the form of a nidus ,  an anatomical structure composed of dilated and tangled supplying arterioles and drainage veins with no intervening capillary bed ,  that can be asymptomatic or cause ,  depending on the location and the size of the avm ,  headaches of varying severity ,  generalized or focal seizures ,  focalneurological defects  ( weakness ,  numbness ,  speech difficulties ,  vision loss )  or potentially fatal intracranial hemorrhage in case the avm ruptures .
distal arthrogryposis type 5 is an inherited developmental defect syndrome characterized by multiple congenital contractures of limbs ,  without primary neurologic and / or muscle disease that affects limb function ,  and ocular anomalies  ( ptosis ,  external ophtalmoplegia and / or strabismus )  .
arthrogryposis - like hand anomaly - sensorineural deafness syndrome is characterized by an arthrogryposis - like hand anomaly and sensorineural deafness .
episodic ataxia type 2  ( ea2 )  is the most frequent form of hereditary episodic ataxia  ( ea )  characterized by paroxysmal episodes of ataxia lasting hours ,  with interictal nystagmus and mildly progressive ataxia .
any autosomal dominant spastic ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vamp1 gene .
spastic ataxia with congenital miosis is a rare hereditary ataxia characterized by an apparently non - progressive or slowly progressive symmetrical ataxia of gait ,  pyramidal signs in the limbs ,  spasticity and hyperreflexia  ( especially in the lower limbs )  together with dysarthria and impaired pupillary reaction to light ,  presenting as a fixed miosis  ( with pupils that seldom exceed 2 mm in diameter and dilate poorly with mydriatics )  .
atelosteogenesis i is a perinatally lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe short - limbed dwarfism ,  joint dislocations ,  club feet along with distinctive facies and radiographic findings .
atelosteogenesis iii  ( aoiii )  is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by short limbs dysmorphic facies and diagnostic radiographic findings .
any atrial standstill in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gja5 gene .
an atrial heart septal defect type 1 associated with variation in the region 5p .
atrial septal defect  ( asd )  with atrioventricular conduction defects is an extremely rare genetic congenital heart disease characterized by the presence of asd ,  mostly of the ostium secundum type ,  associated with conduction anomalies like atrioventricular block ,  atrial fibrillation or right bundle branch block .
lown - ganong - levine syndrome is an extremely rare conduction disorder characterized by a short pr interval  ( less than or equal to 120 ms )  with normal qrs complex on electrocardiogram associated with the occurrence of episodes of atrial tachyarrythmias  ( e .g .
helicoid peripapillary chorioretinal degeneration is a rare autosomal dominantly inherited chorioretinal degeneration disease ,  presenting at birth or infancy ,  characterized by progressive bilateral retinal and choroidal atrophy ,  appearing as lesions on the optic nerve and peripheral ocular fundus and leading to central vision loss .
auriculoosteodysplasia is a very rare condition characterized by multiple osseous dysplasia ,  characteristic ear shape  ( elongation of the lobe that is attached and accompanied by a small ,  slightly posterior lobule )  and somewhat short stature .
a disorder resulting from loss of function or tissue destruction of an organ or multiple organs ,  arising from humoral or cellular immune responses of the individual to their own tissue constituents .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 3  ( sca3 )  ,  also known as machado - joseph disease ,  is the most common subtype of type 1 autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type 1 )  ,  a neurodegenerative disorder ,  and is characterized by ataxia ,  external progressive ophthalmoplegia ,  and other neurological manifestations .
banki syndrome is a synostosis syndrome ,  reported in a single hungarian family in which members of 3 generations showed lunotriquetral synostosis ,  clinodactyly ,  clinometacarpy ,  brachymetacarpy and leptometacarpy  ( thin diaphysis )  .
a chronic disorder characterized by reflux of the gastric and / or duodenal contents into the distal esophagus .
a rare hereditary disorder due to autosomal dominant transmission with hamartosis characterized by multiple early - onset basal cell carcinoma  ( bcc )  ,  multiple jaw keratocysts and skeletal abnormalities .
primary basilar impression  ( pbi )  is a very rare skeletal developmental defect characterized by congenital upward translocation of the upper cervical spine and clivus into the foramen magnum .
bechet disease  ( bd )  is a chronic ,  relapsing ,  multisystemic vasculitis characterized by mucocutaneous lesions ,  as well as articular ,  vascular ,  ocular and central nervous system manifestations .
familial bicuspid aortic valve is a rare ,  genetic ,  aortic malformation defined as a presence of abnormal two - leaflet aortic valve in at least 2 first - degree relatives .
ascher syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by a combination of blepharochalasis ,  double lip ,  and non - toxic thyroid enlargement  ( seen in 10 - 50% of cases )  ,  although the occurrence of all three signs at presentation is uncommon .
blepharonasofacial syndrome is a rare otorhinolaryngological malformation syndrome characterized by a distinctive mask - like facial dysmorphism ,  lacrimal duct obstruction ,  extrapyramidal features ,  digital malformations and intellectual disability .
blepharophimosis ,  ptosis ,  and epicanthus inversus syndrome  ( bpes )  is an ophthalmic disorder characterized by blepharophimosis ,  ptosis ,  epicanthus inversus ,  and telecanthus ,  that can appear associated with  ( type i )  or without premature ovarian failure  ( pof )   ( type ii )  .
this syndrome is characterised by bilateral congenital blepharoptosis ,  ectopia lentis and high myopia .
blue rubber bleb nevus  ( brbns )  is a rare vascular malformation disorder with cutaneous and visceral lesions frequently associated with serious ,  potentially fatal bleeding and anemia .
any cole - carpenter syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the p4hb gene .
diaphyseal medullary stenosis with malignant fibrous histiocytoma is a very rare autosomal dominant bone dysplasia / cancer syndrome characterized clinically by bone infarctions ,  cortical growth abnormalities ,  pathological fractures ,  and development of bone sarcoma  ( malignant fibrous histiocytoma )  .
book syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant ectodermal dysplasia syndrome reported in a swedish family  ( 25 cases from 4 generations )  ,  and one isolated case ,  and is characterized by premolar aplasia ,  hyperhidrosis ,  and premature graying of the hair .
boomerang dysplasia  ( bd )  is a rare lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe short - limbed dwarfism ,  dislocated joints ,  club feet ,  distinctive facies and diagnostic x - ray findings of underossified and dysplastic long tubular bones ,  with a boomerang - like bowing .
weismann - netter syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  primary ,  bent bone dysplasia characterized by anterior diaphyseal bowing of the tibia and fibula ,  broadening of the fibula ,  posterior cortical thickening of both bones and short stature .
brachydactyly  -  arterial hypertension is a rare genetic brachydactyly syndrome characterized by the association of brachydactyly type e with hypertension  ( due to vascular or neurovascular anomalies )  as well as the additional features of short stature and low birth weight  ( compared to non - affected family members )  ,  stocky build and a round face .
brachydactyly  -  long thumb syndrome is a very rare autosomal dominant heart - hand syndrome that is characterized by bisymmetric brachydactyly accompanied by long thumbs ,  joint anomalies  ( restriction of motion at the shoulder and metacarpophalangeal joints )  and cardiac conduction defects .
ballard syndrome is characterized by hypoplasia of the distal phalanges of the ulnar side of the hand and shortening of one or more metacarpals .
preaxial brachydactyly - hallux varus syndrome is characterized the association of hallux varus with short thumbs and first toes  ( involving the metacarpals ,  metatarsals ,  and distal phalanges ;  the proximal and middle phalanges are of normal length )  and abduction of the affected digits .
brachydactyly type a1  ( bda1 )  is a congenital malformation characterized by apparent shortness  ( or absence )  of the middle phalanges of all digits ,  and occasional fusion with the terminal phalanges .
brachydactyly type a2  ( bda2 )  is a congenital malformation characterized by shortening  ( hypoplasia or aplasia )  of the middle phalanges of the index finger and ,  sometimes ,  of the little finger .
brachydactyly type a4  ( bda4 )  is a congenital malformation characterized by brachymesophalangy affecting mainly the 2nd and the 5th digit .
brachydactyly a6  ( bda6 )  is characterized by brachymesophalangy with mesomelic short limbs ,  and carpal and tarsal bone abnormalities .
any brachydactyly type b in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ror2 gene .
a brachydactyly characterized by short and broad terminal phalanges of the thumbs and big toes that has material basis in mutation in the hoxd13 gene on chromosome 2q31 .1 .
any brachydactyly type e in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hoxd13 gene .
fibular aplasia - ectrodactyly syndrome is characterized by fibular aplasia and ectrodactyly .
brachydactyly - nystagmus - cerebellar ataxia syndrome is characterized by brachydactyly ,  nystagmus and cerebellar ataxia .
sillence syndrome  ( brachydactyly - symphalangism syndrome )  resembles type a1 brachydactyly  ( variable shortening of the middle phalanges of all digits )  with associated symphalangism  ( producing a distal phalanx with the shape of a chess pawn )  .
brachymorphism - onychodysplasia - dysphalangism  ( bod )  is a very rare malformation syndrome that is characterized by short stature ,  hypoplastic fifth digits with tiny dysplastic nails ,  facial dysmorphism with coarse features including a wide mouth and broad nose ,  and mild intellectual disability .
brachytelephalangy  -  dysmorphism  -  kallmann syndrome is a developmental anomaly characterized by brachytelephalangy ,  distinct craniofacial features  ( prominent square forehead ,  telecanthus ,  small nose ,  malar hypoplasia ,  smooth philtrum and thin upper lip )  ,  and relative to other family members ,  a short stature .
autosomal dominant brachyolmia is a relatively severe form of brachyolmia ,  a group of rare genetic skeletal disorders ,  characterized by short - trunked short stature ,  platyspondyly and kyphoscoliosis .
a congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development .
branchio - oculo - facial syndrome  ( bofs )  is characterised by low birth weight and growth retardation ,  bilateral branchial clefts that may be hemangiomatous ,  sometimes with linear skin lesions behind the ears  ( 'burn - like' lesions )  ,  congenital strabismus ,  obstructed nasolacrimal ducts ,  a broad nasal bridge with a flattened nasal tip ,  a protruding upper lip with an unusually broad and prominent philtrum ,  and full mouth .
familial juvenile hypertrophy of the breast is a rare breast malformation disorder characterized by unilateral or bilateral ,  symmetrical or asymmetrical ,  uncontrolled ,  rapid and massive enlargement of the breast ( s )  in peripubertal females ,  occurring in various members of a family .
absence of one or both mammary glands .
epidermolytic ichthyosis  ( ei )  is a rare keratinopathic ichthyosis  ( kpi )  ,  that is characterized by a blistering phenotype at birth which progressively becomes hyperkeratotic .
an autosomal dominant inherited cardiac bundle branch disorder which can progress to complete heart block .
burkitt lymphoma is a rare form of malignant mature b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma .
caffey disease is an osteosclerotic dysplasia characterized by acute inflammation with massive subperiosteal new bone formation usually involving the diaphyses of the long bones ,  as well as the ribs ,  mandible ,  scapulae ,  and clavicles .
neurofibromatosis type 6  ( nf6 )  ,  also referred as cafe - au - lait spots syndrome ,  is a cutaneous disorder characterized by the presence of several cafc )  - au - lait  ( cal )  macules without any other manifestations of neurofibromatosis or any other systemic disorder .
hereditary painful callosities is a nummular palmoplantar keratoderma characterized by the development of painful keratotic lesions over pressure points in hands and feet .
camptobrachydactyly is an extremely rare brachydactyly syndrome ,  characterized by short broad hands and feet with brachydactyly associated with congenital flexion contractures of the proximal and / or distal interphalangeal joints of the fingers ,  as well as syndactyly of feet .
camptodactyly of fingers is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital limb malformation characterized by a painless ,  non - traumatic ,  non - neurogenic ,  often bilateral ,  permanent flexion contracture at the proximal interphalangeal joint of a postaxial finger ,  resulting in permanent volar inclination of the affected digit .
campomelic dysplasia is a very rare disorder characterised by a variable association of skeletal abnormalities  ( bowed and fragile long bones ,  pelvis and chest abnormalities ,  eleven rib pairs instead of the usual twelve )  ,  and extraskeletal abnormalities  ( facial dysmorphology ,  cleft palate ,  sexual ambiguity or sex reversal in two thirds of the affected boys ,  and brain ,  heart and kidney malformations )  .
gordon syndrome ,  also known as distal arthrogryposis type 3 ,  is an extremely rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome characterized by congenital contractures of hand and feet with variable degrees of severity of camptodactyly ,  clubfoot and ,  less frequently ,  cleft palate .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the breast .
a malignant tumor that arises from hepatocytes .
craniofaciofrontodigital is a rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by mild intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  cardiac anomalies ,  mild dysmorphic features  ( macrocephaly ,  prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  exophthalmos )  ,  cutis laxa ,  joint hyperlaxity ,  wrinkled palms and soles and skeletal anomalies  ( sella turcica ,  wide ribs and small vertebral bodies )  .
any variation from the normal rate or rhythm  ( which may include the origin of the impulse and / or its subsequent propagation )  in the heart .
an unexpected natural death from a cardiac cause within a short time period from the onset of symptoms .
any cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the braf gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnnt2 gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tpm1 gene .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the mybpc3 gene ,  encoding mybpc3 protein .
familial dilated cardiomyopathy with conduction defect due to lmna mutation is a rare familial dilated cardiomyopathy characterized by left ventricular enlargement and / or reduced systolic function preceded or accompanied by significant conduction system disease and / or arrhythmias including bradyarrhythmias ,  supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmias .
any familial isolated restrictive cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnni3 gene .
familial cutaneous collagenoma is a connective tissue nevus characterized by multiple ,  flesh - colored asymptomatic nodules distributed symmetrically on the trunk and upper arms  ( mainly on the upper two - thirds of the back )  ,  manifesting around adolescence .
hereditary hypercarotenemia and vitamin a deficiency is an extremely rare metabolic disorder characterized clinically by skin discoloration ,  elevated levels of carotene and low levels of vitamin a described in fewer than 5 patients to date .
any paraganglioma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sdhb gene .
entrapment of the median nerve in the wrist that is characterized by numbness ,  tingling and painful movement .
cat eye syndrome  ( ces )  is a rare chromosomal disorder with a highly variable clinical presentation .
cataract - aberrant oral frenula - growth delay syndrome is characterized by cataracts and short stature associated with variable anomalies ,  including aberrant oral frenula ,  a characteristic facial appearance  ( posteriorly angulated ears ,  upslanting palpebral fissures ,  small nose ,  ptosis and epicanthal folds )  cavernous hemangiomas and hernias .
a cataract that has material basis in mutation in the region 14q22 - q23 .
a cataract that has material basis in variation in the region 17q24 .
a cataract that has material basis in variation in the region 1pter - p36 .13 .
any cataract  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crygd gene .
a cataract that has material basis in variation in the region 2pter - p24 .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cryba2 gene .
any cataract  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crygs gene .
any cataract  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gja8 gene .
a cataract that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the vim gene on chromosome 10p13 .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wfs1 gene .
any cataract  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the epha2 gene .
a cataract that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the gcnt2 gene on chromosome 6p24 .
any cataract  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hsf4 gene .
familial cerebral cavernous malformation  ( fccm )  is a rare evolutive vascular malformation disorder characterized by closely clustered irregular dilated capillaries that can be asymptomatic or that can cause variable neurological manifestations such as seizures ,  non - specific headaches ,  progressive or transient focal neurologic deficits ,  and / or cerebral hemorrhages .
leukocyte adhesion deficiency type i  ( lad - i )  is a form of lad characterized by life - threatening ,  recurrent bacterial infections .
an autosomal dominant congenital disorder affecting the skeletal muscles .
rolandic epilepsy  ( re )  is a focal childhood epilepsy characterized by seizures consisting of unilateral facial sensory - motor symptoms ,  with electroencephalogram  ( eeg )  showing sharp biphasic waves over the rolandic region .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 31  ( sca31 )  is a very rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii  ( adca type iii )  characterized by the late - onset of cerebral ataxia ,  dysarthria and horizontal gaze nystagmus ,  and that is occasionally accompanied by pyramidal signs ,  tremor ,  decreased vibration sense and hearing difficulties .
a cerebral amyloid angiopathy characterized by ataxia ,  intention tremor ,  psychosis and dementia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of itm2b on chromosome 13q14 .2 .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 29  ( sca29 )  is a rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type i  ( adca type i )  characterized by very slowly progressive or non - progressive ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  oculomotor abnormalities and intellectual disability .
any sotos syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nsd1 gene .
a sarcoma involving a telencephalon .
cerebro - costo - mandibular syndrome  ( ccms )  is characterized at birth by posterior rib gaps and orofacial anomalies reminiscent of pierre robin syndrome that include palatal defects  ( short hard palate ,  absent soft palate ,  absent uvula )  ,  micrognathia and glossoptosis .
a rib that is attached to a cervical vertebra or enlarged transverse processes .
any isolated klippel - feil syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gdf6 gene .
a sensorineural peripheral polyneuropathy affecting approximately 1 in 2 , 500 individuals ,  and is the most common inherited disorder of the peripheral nervous system .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2a1  ( cmt2a1 )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 1a  ( cmt1a )  is a type ofinherited neurological disorder that affects the peripheral nerves .
a rare subtype of cmt1 characterized by a variable clinical presentation .
cheilitis glandularis  ( cg )  is an uncommon chronic inflammatory disease of unknown origin characterized by macrocheilia and secretions of thick saliva from swollen labial minor salivary glands .
cherubism is a rare ,  self - limiting ,  fibro - osseous ,  genetic disease of childhood and adolescence characterized by varying degrees of progressive bilateral enlargement of the mandible and / or maxilla ,  with clinical repercussions in severe cases .
arnold - chiari malformation type i is a central nervous system malformation characterized by caudal displacement of the cerebellar tonsils exceeding 5mm below the foramen magnum with or without syringomyelia .
alagille  ( ags )  syndrome is variably characterized by chronic cholestasis due to paucity of intrahepatic bile ducts ,  peripheral pulmonary artery stenosis ,  vertebrae segmentation anomalies ,  characteristic facies ,  posterior embryotoxon / anterior segment abnormalities ,  pigmentary retinopathy ,  and dysplastic kidneys .
familial calcium pyrophosphate deposition  ( cppd )  is a chronic inherited arthropathy characterized by chondrocalcinosis  ( cc ;  i .e .
autosomal dominant form of chondrodysplasia punctata .
paroxysmal non - kinesigenic dyskinesia  ( pnkd )  is a form of paroxysmal dyskinesia ,  characterized by attacks of dystonic or choreathetotic movements precipitated by stress ,  fatigue ,  coffee or alcohol intake or menstruation .
cirrhosis in which no causative agent can be identified .
congenital pseudoarthrosis of the clavicle is a rare benign condition ,  characterized by a painless mass or swelling over the clavicle .
any van der woude syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the irf6 gene .
autosomal dominant popliteal pterygium syndrome  ( ad - pps )  is a rare genetic malformative disorder characterized by cleft lip ,  with or without cleft palate ,  contractures of the lower extremities ,  abnormal external genitalia ,  syndactyly of fingers and / or toes ,  and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail .
cleft lip with or without cleft palate mapped to chromosome 6p24 .
a cleft palate that is not part of a larger syndrome .
cleft palate - lateral synechia syndrome  ( cpls )  is a congenital malformation syndrome characterized by the association of cleft palate and intra - oral lateral synechiae connecting the free borders of the palate and the floor of the mouth .
cleft velum is a fissure type embryopathy that affects in varying degrees the soft palate .
blepharo - cheilo - odontic syndrome is an ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by the association of abnormalities of the eyelids ,  lips ,  and teeth .
cleidocranial dysplasia  ( ccd )  is a condition that primarily affects the development of the bones and teeth .
cleidorhizomelic syndrome is a rhizo - mesomelic dysplasia characterized by rhizomelic short stature / dwarfism in combination with lateral clavicular defects .
the most common congenital deformation of the foot ,  occurring in 1 of 1 , 000 live births .
isolated congenital digital clubbing is a rare genodermatosis disorder characterized by enlargement of the terminal segments of fingers and toes with thickened nails without any other abnormality .
an instance of cluster headache syndrome that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
congenital narrowing of a segment of the aorta .
cochleosaccular degeneration - cataract syndrome is characterised by progressive sensorineural hearing loss due to severe cochleosaccular degeneration and cataract .
any familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nlrp3 gene .
coloboma of macula is a rare ,  non - syndromic developmental defect of the eye characterized by well - circumscribed ,  oval or rounded ,  usually unilateral ,  atrophic lesions of varying size presenting rudimentary or absent retina ,  choroid and sclera located at the macula leading to decreased vision and ,  on occasion ,  other symptoms  ( e .g .
renal coloboma syndrome  ( rcs )  is a genetic condition characterized by optic nerve dysplasia and renal hypodysplasia .
coloboma of macula  -  brachydactyly type b or sorsby syndrome is a malformation syndrome characterized by the combination of bilateral coloboma of macula with horizontal pendular nystagmus and severe visual loss ,  and brachydactyly type b .
uveal coloboma - cleft lip and palate - intellectual disability is characterised by coloboma of the iris ,  bilateral cleft lip and palate ,  and intellectual deficiency of varying degree .
a rare genetic neoplastic syndrome with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance but incomplete penetrance .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crx gene .
congenital contractural arachnodactyly  ( cca ,  beals syndrome )  is a connective tissue disorder characterized by multiple flexion contractures ,  arachnodactyly ,  severe kyphoscoliosis ,  abnormal pinnae and muscular hypoplasia .
any benign neonatal seizures in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnq2 gene .
any benign neonatal seizures in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnq3 gene .
familial benign copper deficiency is a rare disorder of mineral absorption and transport characterized by hypocupremia that manifests as failure to thrive ,  mild anemia ,  repeated seizures ,  hypotonia ,  and seborrheic skin .
hereditary coproporphyria is a form of acute hepatic porphyria characterized by the occurrence of neuro - visceral attacks and ,  more rarely ,  by the presence of cutaneous lesions .
schnyder corneal dystrophy  ( scd )  is a rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by corneal clouding or crystals within the corneal stroma ,  and a progressive decrease in visual acuity .
fleck corneal dystrophy  ( fcd )  is a rare generally asymptomatic form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by multiple asymptomatic ,  non - progressive opacities disseminated throughout the corneal stroma with no effect on visual acuity .
type i granular corneal dystrophy  ( gcdi )  is a rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by multiple small deposits in the superficial central corneal stroma ,  and progressive visual impairment ,  which may sometimes be severe .
a posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy that has material basis in autosomal dominant inheritance of mutation in the ovol2 gene on chromosome 20p11 .23 .
meesmann corneal dystrophy  ( mecd )  is a rare form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by distinct tiny bubble - like ,  round - to - oval punctate bilateral opacities in the central corneal epithelium ,  and to a lesser extent in the peripheral cornea ,  with little impact on vision .
type i lattice corneal dystrophy  ( lcdi )  is a frequent form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by a network of delicate interdigitating branching filamentous opacities within the cornea with progressive visual impairment and no systemic manifestations .
epithelial recurrent erosion dystrophy  ( ered )  is a rare form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by recurrent episodes of epithelial erosions from childhood in the absence of associated diseases ,  with occasional impairment of vision .
ramos - arroyo syndrome  ( ras )  is a very rare genetic disorder characterized by corneal anesthesia ,  retinal abnormalities ,  bilateral hearing loss ,  distinct facies ,  patent ductus arteriosus ,  hirschsprung disease ,  short stature ,  and intellectual disability .
stern - lubinsky - durrie syndrome is characterised by corneal epithelial changes  ( associated with photophobia and burning and watering of the eyes )  ,  diffuse palmoplantar hyperkeratosis ,  distal onycholysis ,  brachydactyly ,  short stature ,  dental problems ,  and premature birth .
congenital trigeminal anesthesia is a rare neuro - ophtalmological disorder characterized by a congenital sensory deficit involving all or some of the sensory components of the trigeminal nerve .
any cornelia de lange syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nipbl gene .
congenital shortness of the costocoracoid ligament is a rare anomaly characterized by fixation of the scapula to the first rib ,  resulting in a cosmetic deformity with rounding of the shoulders and loss of the anterior clavicular contour .
any spondylocostal dysostosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tbx6 gene .
hip deformity in which the femoral neck leans forward resulting in a decrease in the angle between femoral neck and its shaft .
coxoauricular syndrome is an extremely rare primary bone defect ,  described only in a mother and her three daughters to date ,  characterized by short stature ,  hip dislocation ,  minor vertebral and pelvic changes ,  and microtia with hearing loss .
craniofacial - deafness - hand syndrome  ( cdhs )  is an autosomal dominant disorder ,  described in one family to date ,  characterized by characteristic facial features  ( flat facial profile with normal calvarium ,  hypertelorism ,  small downslanting palpebral fissures ,  hypoplastic nose with button tip and slitlike nares ,  small ''pursed'' mouth )  ,  profound sensorineural deafness ,  and ulnar deviations and contractures of the hand .
stanescu type dysostosis is a rare form of osteosclerosis .
jackson - weiss syndrome  ( jws )  is a rare genetic disorder characterized by foot malformations  ( tarsal and metatarsal fusions ;  short ,  broad ,  medially deviated great toes )  and in some patients craniosynostosis with facial anomalies .
craniosynostosis ,  dandy - walker malformation and hydrocephalus is a malformation disorder characterized by sagittal craniosynostosis ,  dandy - walker malformation ,  hydrocephalus ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( including dolichocephaly ,  hypertelorism ,  micrognathia ,  positional ear deformity )  and variable developmental delay .
inherited or familial creutzfeldt - jakob disease  ( fcjd )  is a very rare form of genetic prion disease characterized by typical cjd features  ( rapidly progressive dementia ,  personality / behavioral changes ,  psychiatric disorders ,  myoclonus ,  and ataxia )  with a genetic cause and sometimes a family history of dementia .
monosomy 5p ,  also known as cri du chat syndrome ,  is a rare autosomal deletion syndrome characterized by a mewing cry  ( cri du chat )  in infancy ,  multiple congenital anomalies ,  intellectual disability ,  microcephaly ,  and facial dysmorphism .
crouzon disease is characterized by craniosynostosis and facial hypoplasia .
mixed cryoglobulinemia  ( mc )  is a rare multisystem disease characterized by the presence of circulating cryoprecipitable immune complexes in the serum ,  manifested clinically by a classical triad of purpura ,  weakness and arthralgia .
cryptomicrotia  -  brachydactyly  -  excess fingertip arch syndrome describes a combination of malformations that include bilateral cryptomicrotia ,  brachytelomesophalangy with short middle and distal phalanges of digits 2 through 5 ,  hypoplastic toenails and excess fingertip arch patterns ,  and has been reported in one family  ( mother and son )  .
isolated cryptophtalmia is a congenital abnormality in which the eyelids are absent and skin covers the ocular bulb ,  which is often microphthalmic .
any autosomal dominant cutis laxa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the eln gene .
cutis gyrata - acanthosis nigricans - craniosynthosis also known as beare - stevenson syndrome  ( bss )  is a severe form of syndromic craniosynostosis ,  characterized by a variable degree of craniosynostosis ,  with cloverleaf skull reported in over 50% of cases ,  cutis gyrata ,  corduroy - like linear striations in the skin ,  acanthosis nigricans ,  skin tags ,  and choanal stenosis or atresia .
cyprus facial - neuromusculoskeletal syndrome is an exceedingly rare ,  genetic malformation syndrome characterized by a striking facial appearance ,  variable skeletal deformities ,  and neurological defects .
gorham - stout disease  ( gsd )  is a rare disease of massive osteolysis associated with proliferation and dilation of lymphatic vessels .
any mitochondrial complex iii deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bcs1l gene .
a chronic tubulointerstitial nephropathy that affects people in certain rural areas along the danube river in the balkans .
darier disease  ( dd )  is a keratinization disorder characterized by the development of keratotic papules in seborrheic areas and specific nail anomalies .
dominant deafness - onychodystrophy  ( ddod )  syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by congenital hearing impairment ,  small or absent nails on the hands and feet ,  and small terminal phalanges .
deafness - ear malformation - facial palsy syndrome is characterized by profound conductive deafness due to stapedial abnormalities associated with variable malformations of the external ears and facial paralysis .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the diaph1 gene .
deafness - craniofacial syndrome is characterised by the association of congenital hearing loss and facial dysmorphism  ( facial asymmetry ,  a broad nasal root and small nasal alae )  .
cadasil  ( cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy )  is a hereditary cerebrovascular disorder characterized by mid - adult onset of recurrent subcortical ischemic stroke and cognitive impairment progressing to dementia in addition to migraines with aura and mood disturbances seen in about a third of patients .
dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy  ( drpla )  is a rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
dentin dysplasia type i  ( dd - i )  is a rare form of dentin dysplasia  ( dd )  characterized by sharp conical short roots or rootless teeth .
dentin dysplasia type ii  ( dd - ii )  is a rare mild form of dentin dysplasia  ( dd )  characterized by normal tooth roots but abnormal primary dentition .
dentin dysplasia - sclerotic bones syndrome is a rare ,  genetic odontologic disease characterized by the clinical ,  radiographic ,  and histologic features of dentine dysplasia and osteosclerosis of all long bones ,  with heavy cortical bone and narrowed or occluded marrow spaces .
dentinogenesis imperfecta type 2  ( dgi - 2 )  is a rare ,  severe form of dentinogenesis imperfecta  ( dgi )  and is characterized by weakness and discoloration of all teeth .
dentinogenesis imperfecta type 3  ( dgi - 3 )  is a rare ,  severe form of dentinogenesis imperfecta  ( dgi )  characterized by opalescent primary and permanent teeth ,  marked attrition ,  large pulp chambers ,  multiple pulp exposure and shell teeth radiographically  ( i .e .
congenital unilateral hypoplasia of depressor anguli oris is a congenital anomaly ,  characterized by the unilateral hypoplasia / agenesis of the depressor anguli oris muscle ,  resulting in an asymmetric crying facies in neonatal period /  infancy  ( drooping of one corner of the mouth during crying )  while eye closure ,  nasolabial fold and forehead wrinkling are symmetric .
a benign skin condition commonly seen in dark - skinned individuals that is characterized by multiple small hyperpigmented papular lesions resembling seborrheic keratosis on the face and upper body .
an autosomal dominant disease characterized by localized hives and systemic manifestations in response to dermal vibration ,  with coincident degranulation of mast cells and increased histamine levels in serum .
familial dermographism is a condition also known as skin writing .
dermo - odonto dysplasia belongs to the group of tricho - odonto - onychial dysplasias .
hereditary central diabetes insipidus is a rare genetic subtype of central diabetes insipidus  ( cdi )  characterized by polyuria and polydipsia due to a deficiency in vasopressin  ( avp )  synthesis .
monogenic diabetes caused by inactivating mutation ( s )  in the gene hnf4a ,  encoding hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 - alpha .
monogenic diabetes caused by inactivating mutation ( s )  in the gck gene ,  encoding glucokinase .
any type 1 diabetes mellitus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ins gene .
short stature - valvular heart disease - characteristic facies syndrome is characterised by severe short stature with disproportionately short legs ,  small hands ,  clinodactyly ,  valvular heart disease and dysmorphism  ( ptosis ,  high - arched palate ,  abnormal dentition )  .
isolated distichiasis is a rare congenital eyelid anomaly characterized by an accessory row of eyelashes  ( that may be partial or complete )  posterior to the normal row of cilia ,  at or close to the meibomian gland orifices ,  that is not associated with any other condition ,  and that may lead to ocular irritation and corneal damage if left untreated .
this syndrome is characterised by multiple doughnut - shaped hyperostotic or osteosclerotic lesions of the calvaria .
doyne honeycomb retinal dystrophy  ( dhrd )  is a condition that affects the eyes and causes vision loss .
a retinal drusen characterized by yellow - white deposits  ( drusen )  that accumulate beneath the retinal pigment epithelium on bruch membrane and that has material basis in mutations in the cfh gene on chromosome 1q31 .3 .
duane retraction syndrome  ( drs )  is a congenital form of strabismus characterized by horizontal eye movement limitation ,  globe retraction and palpebral fissure narrowing in attempted adduction .
familial dupuyren contracture is a rare ,  genetic ,  epidermal disease characterized by a ,  usually unilateral ,  progressive thickening and shortening of the palmar fascia ,  leading to permanent flexion contracture of the digits in several members of a family .
3m syndrome is a primordial growth disorder characterized by low birth weight ,  reduced birth length ,  severe postnatal growth restriction ,  a spectrum of minor anomalies  ( including facial dysmorphism )  and normal intelligence .
an autosomal dominant form of kenny - caffey syndrome due to mutation ( s )  in the fam111a gene ,  encoding protein fam111a .
lc ) ri - weill dyschondrosteosis  ( lwd )  is a skeletal dysplasia marked by disproportionate short stature and the characteristic madelung wrist deformity .
dyschondrosteosis  -  nephritis is characterized by the association of short stature due to mesomelic shortening of the limbs and madelung deformity ,  with hereditary nephritis .
acropigmentation of dohi is a genodermatosis characterised by the presence of hyperpigmented and hypopigmented macules ,  principally located on the extremities and limbs .
a dyskeratosis congenita that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of terc on chromosome 3q26 .2 .
a rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with variable penetrance .
a progressive form of dementia characterized by the presence of protein deposits called lewy bodies in the midbrain and cerebral cortex ,  and loss of cholinergic and dopaminergic neurons .
dysplasia epiphysealis hemimelica  ( deh )  ,  or trevor's disease ,  is a rarecondition that most commonly affects the epiphysis  ( the end )  of long bones in children .early diagnosis and treatment are necessary to prevent jointdysfunction and deformity and may be surgical or non - surgical depending on the location and the symptoms .
carpotarsal osteochondromatosis is a very rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by abnormal bone proliferation and osteochondromas in the upper and lower limbs .
early onset torsion dystonia  ( eotd )  is a rare movement disorder characterized by involuntary ,  repetitive ,  sustained muscle contractions or postures involving one or more sites of the body .
dyt4 type primary dystonia is characterized by predominantly laryngeal dystonia  ( manifesting as whispering dysphonia )  and cervical dystonia  ( manifesting as torticollis )  .
paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia  ( pkd )  is a form of paroxysmal dyskinesia ,  characterized by recurrent brief involuntary hyperkinesias ,  such as choreoathetosis ,  ballism ,  athetosis or dystonia ,  triggered by sudden movements .
autosomal dominant dopa - responsive dystonia  ( dyt5a )  is a rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by childhood - onset dystonia that shows a dramatic and sustained response to low doses of levodopa  ( l - dopa )  and that may be associated with parkinsonism at an older age .
rapid - onset dystonia - parkinsonism  ( rdp )  is a very rare movement disorder ,  characterized by the abrupt onset of parkinsonism and dystonia ,  often triggered by physical or psychological stress .
thickened earlobes - conductive deafness syndrome is characterized by microtia with thickened ear lobes ,  micrognathia and conductive hearing loss due to congenital ossicular anomalies .
absence of fingerprints - congenital milia syndrome is characterized by neonatal blisters and milia  ( small white papules ,  especially on the face )  and congenital absence of dermatoglyphics on the hands and feet .
a form of ectodermal dysplasia characterized by the association of anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with cleft lip / palate .
clouston syndrome  ( or hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia )  is characterised by the clinical triad of nail dystrophy ,  alopecia ,  and palmoplantar hyperkeratosis .
ectodermal dysplasia ,  trichoodontoonychial type is a form of ectodermal dysplasia with hair ,  teeth and nail involvement characterized predominantly by hypodontia ,  hypotrichosis ,  delayed hair growth and brittle nails .
any isolated ectopia lentis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fbn1 gene .
edinburgh malformation syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  lethal ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by consistently abnormal facial appearance ,  true or apparent hydrocephalus ,  motor and cognitive developmental delay ,  failure to thrive  ( feeding difficulties ,  vomiting ,  chest infections )  and death within a few months of birth .
an eec syndrome characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 7q11 .2 - q21 .3 .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  classic type  ( ceds )  is a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome that affects the connective tissue and is characterized by skin hyperextensibility ,  widened atrophic scars and joint hypermobility .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  hypermobility type  ( ht - eds )  is the most frequent form of eds ,  a group of hereditary connective tissue diseases ,  and is characterized by joint hyperlaxity ,  mild skin hyperextensibility ,  tissue fragility and extra - musculoskeletal manifestations .
the autosomal dominant form of the vascular type of ehlers - danlos syndrome .
arthrochalasia ehlers - danlos syndrome  ( aeds )  is an inherited connective tissue disorder that is caused by defects in a protein called collagen .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  progeroid type  ( eds - pf )  is a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by a premature aging with sparse hair ,  macrocephaly ,  loose elastic skin ,  failure to thrive ,  joint laxity ,  psychomotor retardation ,  hypotonia ,  and defective wound healing with atrophic scars .
ehlers - danlos syndromes  ( eds )  form a heterogeneous group of hereditary connective tissue diseases characterized by joint hyperlaxity ,  cutaneous hyperelasticity and tissue fragility .
any hereditary elliptocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spta1 gene .
beckwith - wiedemann syndrome  ( bws )  is a genetic disorder characterized by overgrowth ,  tumor predisposition and congenital malformations .
congenital lobar emphysema  ( cle )  is a respiratory abnormality characterized by respiratory distress due to hyperinflation of one or more affected lobes of the lung .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fam83h gene .
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1  ( men1 )  is a frequent form of men ,  a rare inherited cancer syndrome ,  characterized by the development of neuroendocrine tumors of the parathyroid ,  pancreas ,  and anterior pituitary gland ,  and less commonly the adrenal cortical gland ,  with other non - endocrine tumors in some patients .
camurati - englemann disease  ( ced )  is a rare ,  clinically variable bone dysplasia syndrome characterized by hyperostosis of the long bones ,  skull ,  spine and pelvis ,  associated with severe pain in the extremities ,  a wide - based waddling gait ,  joint contractures ,  muscle weakness and easy fatigability .
familial occurrence ,  with more than one generation being affected ,  of persistent eosinophilia ,  an increase in the number of eosinophils in the blood ,  in the absence of known causal factors .
the most common type of cutaneous cyst .
transient bullous dermolysis of the newborn is a rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  characterized by generalized blistering at birth that usually regresses within the first 6 to 24 months of life .
generalized dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( ddeb - gen )  is a subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  ,  formerly known as ddeb ,  pasini and cockayne - touraine types ,  characterized by generalized blistering ,  milia formation ,  atrophic scarring ,  and dystrophic nails .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex ,  dowling - meara type  ( ebs - dm )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by the presence of generalized vesicles and small blisters in grouped or arcuate configuration .
localized epidermolysis bullosa simplex ,  formerly known as ebs ,  weber - cockayne ,  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  .
pretibial dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa is a rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  characterized by the development of blisters ,  erosions ,  and lichenoid lesions predominantly in the pretibial region .
non - dowling - meara generalized epidermolysis bullosa simplex ,  formerly known as epidermolysis bullosa simplex ,  kobner type  ( ebs - k )  is a generalized basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by non - herpetiform blisters and erosions arising in particular at sites of friction .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex ,  ogna type  ( ebs - o )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by sometimes widespread ,  primarily acral blistering .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex with mottled pigmentation  ( ebs - mp )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by generalized blistering with mottled or reticulate brown pigmentation .
benign occipital epilepsy is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by visual seizures and occipital epileptiform paroxysms reactive to ocular opening which present in infancy to mid - adolescence .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia type 1  ( med 1 )  is a form of multiple epiphyseal dysplasia that is characterized by normal or mild short stature ,  pain in the hips and / or knees ,  progressive deformity of extremities and early - onset osteoarthrosis .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  beighton type is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by epiphyseal dysplasia  ( usually mild )  associated with progressive myopia ,  retinal thinning ,  crenated cataracts ,  conductive deafness ,  and stubby digits .
pilomatrixoma is a rare and benign hair cell - derived tumor occurring mostly in young adults  ( usually under the age of 20 )  and characterized as a 3 - 30 mm solitary ,  painless ,  firm ,  mobile ,  deep dermal or subcutaneous tumor ,  most commonly found in the head ,  neck or upper extremities .
multiple self - healing squamous epithelioma  ( also known as ferguson - smith disease  ( fsd )  )  is a rare inherited skin cancer syndrome characterized by the development of multiple locally invasive skin tumors resembling keratoacanthomas of the face and limbs which usually heal spontaneously after several months leaving pitted scars .
any familial thoracic aortic aneurysm and aortic dissection in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myh11 gene .
erythema palmare hereditarium is a rare ,  benign ,  congenital genetic skin disorder characterized by permanent and asymptomatic erythema of the palmar and ,  less frequently ,  the solar surfaces .
primary erythermalgia is characterized by intermittent attacks of red ,  warm ,  painful burning extremities .
primary familial polycythemia is an inherited hematological disorder resulting from mutations in the erythropoietin  ( epo )  receptor and is characterized by an elevated absolute red blood cell mass caused by uncontrolled red blood cell production in the presence of low epo levels .
an instance of acute erythroleukemia that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 34  ( sca34 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type i  ( adca type i )  ,  characterized by papulosquamous ,  ichthyosiform plaques on the limbs appearing shortly after birth and later manifestations including progressive ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  nystagmus and decreased reflexes .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the esophagus .
exostoses - anetodermia - brachydactyly type e syndrome is an association reported in a single kindred characterized by the variable presence of the following features: anetodermia  ( macular atrophy of the skin )  ,  multiple exostoses ,  and brachydactyly type e . there have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1985 .
any exostoses ,  multiple in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ext1 gene .
this gene is involved in the heparin / heparin sulfate biosynthesis ,  cell organization / biogenesis and development of the cytoskeleton in chondrocytes .
extrasystoles - short stature - hyperpigmentation - microcephaly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  malformation syndrome with short stature characterized by microcephaly ,  borderline intellectual disability ,  hyperpigmentation of the skin ,  short stature ,  and ventricular extrasystoles .
hemifacial hyperplasia is a rare morphological anomaly of the maxillofacial region characterized by unilateral overgrowth of all facial structures  ( bone ,  soft tissues ,  teeth )  ,  called true hemifacial hypertrophy ,  or overgrowth of one or more but not all facial structures ,  called partial hemifacial hypertrophy .
fanconi syndrome is a condition in which the kidneys do not absorb certain substances into the body .
felty syndrome  ( fs )  ,  also known as ''super rheumatoid'' disease ,  is a severe form of rheumatoid arthritis  ( ra )  ,  characterized by a triad of ra ,  splenomegaly and neutropenia ,  resulting in susceptibility to bacterial infections .
femoral - facial syndrome is characterized by predominant femoral hypoplasia  ( bilateral or unilateral )  and unusual facies .
fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva  ( fop )  is a severely disabling heritable disorder of connective tissue characterized by congenital malformations of the great toes and progressive heterotopic ossification that forms qualitatively normal bone in characteristic extraskeletal sites .
birt - hogg - dube  ( bhd )  syndrome is characterized by skin lesions ,  kidney tumors ,  and pulmonary cysts that may be associated with pneumothorax .
a desmoid tumor  ( dt )  is a benign ,  locally invasive soft tissue tumor associated with a high recurrence rate but with no metastatic potential .
any gingival fibromatosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sos1 gene .
gingival fibromatosis  -  hypertrichosis syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a generalized enlargement of the gingiva occurring at birth or during childhood that is associated with generalized hypertrichosis developing at birth ,  during the first years of life ,  or at puberty and predominantly affecting the face ,  upper limbs ,  and midback .
gingival fibromatosis - progressive deafness syndrome is characterized by gingival fibromatosis associated with progressive sensorineural hearing loss .
laurin - sandrow syndrome  ( lss )  is characterised by complete polysyndactyly of the hands ,  mirror feet and nose anomalies  ( hypoplasia of the nasal alae and short columella )  ,  often associated with ulnar and / or fibular duplication  ( and sometimes tibial agenesis )  .
eng - strom syndrome is characterised by intrauterine growth retardation and intermittent locking of the finger joints .
isolated congenital adermatoglyphia is a rare ,  genetic develomental defect during embryogenesis disorder characterized by the lack of epidermal ridges on the palms and soles ,  resulting in the absence of fingerprints ,  with no other associated manifestations .
fish eye disease  ( fed )  is a form of genetic lcat  ( lecithin - cholesterol acyltransferase )  deficiency characterized clinically by corneal opacifications ,  and biochemically by significantly reduced hdl cholesterol and partial lcat enzyme deficiency .
floating - harbor syndrome is a genetic developmental disorder characterized by facial dysmorphism ,  short stature with delayed bone age ,  and expressive language delay .
flynn - aird syndrome is a neuroectodermal disorder involving the nervous ,  cutaneous ,  skeletal ,  and glandular systems .
an instance of fourth cranial nerve palsy that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
focal facial dermal dysplasia type i  ( ffdd1 )  ,  also known as brauer syndrome ,  is a focal facial dysplasia  ( ffdd )  characterized by congenital bitemporal cutis aplasia .
any foveal hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pax6 gene .
north carolina macular dystrophy  ( ncmd )  is a non - progressive autosomal dominant macular disorder of congenital or infantile onset characterized by loss of central vision ,  the accumulation of drusen in the macula and atrophy of photoreceptor cells with a variable phenotype at macular examination .
a condition caused by a 520 kb deletion at 16p12 .1 .
frasier syndrome is characterised by the association of male pseudohermaphrodism and glomerular nephropathy .
frontorhiny is a distinct syndromic type of frontonasal malformation characterized by hypertelorism ,  wide nasal bridge ,  broad columella ,  widened philtrum ,  widely separated narrow nares ,  poor development of nasal tip ,  midline notch of the upper alveolus ,  columella base swellings and a low hairline .
any fuchs' endothelial dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col8a2 gene .
fundus albipunctatus is a rare ,  genetic retinal dystrophy characterized by the presence of numerous small ,  round ,  yellowish - white retinal lesions that are distributed throughout the retina but spare the fovea .
sorsby's fundus dystrophy is a rare progressive autosomal dominant macular dystrophy ,  presenting between the third and sixth decades of life ,  characterized by retinal atrophy and retinal detachment and leading to loss of central vision ,  then peripheral vision ,  and eventually blindness .
decreased or absent levels of serum immunoglobulin a ,  with normal serum levels of immunoglobulin g and immunoglobulin m in a patient who is older than 4 years of age and in whom all other causes of hypogammaglobulinemia have been excluded .
autosomal recessive axonal neuropathy with neuromyotonia is a rare peripheral neuropathy characterized by slowly progressive axonal ,  motor greater than sensory polyneuropathy combined with neuromytonia  ( including spontaneous muscular activity at rest  ( myokymia )  ,  impaired muscle relaxation  ( pseudomyotonia )  ,  and contractures of hands and feet )  and neuromyotonic or myokymic discharges on needle emg .
an autosomal dominant inherited adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric mucosa and is characterized by the presence of poorly cohesive malignant cells and absence of glandular formations .
an indolent ,  extranodal type of non - hodgkin lymphoma composed of small b - lymphocytes  ( centrocyte - like cells )  .
mc ) nc ) trier disease  ( md )  is a rare premalignant hyperproliferative gastropathy characterized by massive overgrowth of foveolar cells in the gastric lining ,  resulting in large gastric folds ,  and manifesting with epigastric pain ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  peripheral edema and ,  less commonly ,  anorexia and weight loss .
a very rare and fatal disorder of spongiform encephalopathy usually caused by mutations of the prion protein  ( prnp )  gene .
a large ,  or giant ,  congenital melanocytic nevus  ( lcmn or gcmn )  is a pigmented skin lesion of more than 20 cm  -  or 40 cm -  respectively ,  projected adult diameter ,  composed of melanocytes ,  and presenting with an elevated risk of malignant transformation .
an instance of ossifying fibroma  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a neurologic disorder caused by defective metabolism of the neurotransmitters in the brain .
any iridogoniodysgenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pitx2 gene .
any juvenile glaucoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myoc gene .
a form of glaucoma in which there is no visible abnormality in the trabecular meshwork .
glaucoma - sleep apnea syndrome is characterized by sleep apnoea associated with glaucoma .
subependymoma is a rare and slow growing type of ependymoma ,  often presenting in middle - aged adults ,  found more commonly in men than in women ,  usually located in the fourth and lateral ventricles and manifesting with variable symptoms including headache ,  nausea ,  and loss of balance .
renal cysts and diabetes syndrome  ( rcad )  is a rare form of maturity - onset diabetes of the young  ( mody )  characterized clinically by heterogeneous cystic renal disease and early - onset familial non - autoimmune diabetes .
hypotrichosis  -  lymphedema  -  telangiectasia is an extremely rare syndromic lymphedema disorder characterized by early - onset hypotrichosis ,  childhood - onset lymphedema ,  and variable telangiectasia ,  particularly of the palms .
fibronectin glomerulopathy is a hereditary kidney disease characterized by proteinuria ,  type iv renal tubular acidosis ,  microscopic hematuria and hypertension that may lead to end - stage renal failure in the second to sixth decade of life .
glomuvenous malformations  ( gvms )  are hereditary vascular malformations characterized by the presence of small ,  multifocal bluish - purple venous lesions involving the skin .
gms syndrome describes an extremely rare syndrome involving goniodysgenesis ,  intellectual disability and short stature in addition to microcephaly ,  short nose ,  small hands and ears ,  and that has been seen in one family to date .
multinodular goiter  -  cystic kidney  -  polydactyly syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by the association of multinodular goiter ,  cystic renal disease and digital anomalies .
an instance of multinodular goiter that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
grant syndrome is a rare osteogenesis imperfecta - like disorder ,  described in two patients to date ,  characterized clinically by persistent wormian bones ,  blue sclera ,  mandibular hypoplasia ,  shallow glenoid fossa ,  and campomelia .
gray platelet syndrome  ( gps )  is a rare inherited bleeding disorder characterized by macrothrombocytopenia ,  myelofibrosis ,  splenomegaly and typical gray appearance of platelets on wright stained peripheral blood smear .
myhre syndrome is characterised by striking muscular build ,  short stature ,  reduced joint mobility ,  brachydactyly ,  mixed hearing loss and mental retardation of variable severity .
aromatase excess syndrome is a rare ,  genetic endocrine disease characterized by increased levels of estrogen due to elevated extraglandular aromatase activity .
chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy  ( cidp )  is a chronic monophasic ,  progressive or relapsing symmetric sensorimotor disorder characterized by progressive muscular weakness with impaired sensation ,  absent or diminished tendon reflexes and elevated cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  proteins .
hypertrichosis cubiti is a rare hair anomaly characterized by symmetrical ,  congenital or early - onset ,  bilateral hypertrychosis localized on the externsor surfaces of the upper extremities  ( especially the elbows )  .
hand - foot - genital syndrome  ( hfgs )  is a very rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome characterized by distal limb malformations and urogenital defects .
an autoimmune disorder caused by the production of autoantibodies against thyroid tissue .
hawkinsinuria is an inborn error of tyrosine metabolism characterized by failure to thrive ,  persistent metabolic acidosis ,  fine and sparse hair ,  and excretion of the unusual cyclic amino acid metabolite ,  hawkinsin  (  ( 2 - l - cystein - s - yl ,  4 - dihydroxycyclohex - 5 - en - 1 - yl ) acetic acid )  ,  in the urine .
heart - hand syndrome type 3 is a very rare heart - hand syndrome ,  described in three members of a spanish family to date ,  which is characterized by a cardiac conduction defect  ( sick sinus ,  bundle - branch block )  and brachydactyly ,  resembling brachydactyly type c of the hands ,  affecting principally the middle phalanges in conjunction with an extra ossicle on the proximal phalanx of both index fingers .
a hemangioma that involves the small intestine .
kasabach - merritt syndrome  ( kms )  ,  also known as hemangioma - thrombocytopenia syndrome ,  is a rare disorder characterized by profound thrombocytopenia ,  microangiopathic hemolytic anemia ,  and subsequent consumptive coagulopathy in association with vascular tumors ,  particularly kaposiform hemangioendothelioma or tufted angioma .
progressive hemifacial atrophy  ( pha )  is a rare acquired disorder ,  characterized by unilateral slowly progressive atrophy of the skin and soft tissues of half of the face leading to a sunken appearance .
bencze syndrome or hemifacial hyperplasia with strabismus is a malformation syndrome involving the abnormal growth of the facial skeleton as well as its soft tissue structure and organs ,  and is characterized by mild facial asymmetry with unaffected neurocranium and eyeballs ,  as well as by esotropia ,  amblyopia and / or convergent strabismus ,  and occasionally submucous cleft palate .
oculoauriculovertebral spectrum  ( oavs )  with radial defects is a rare branchial arches and limb primordia development disorder characterized by variable degrees of uni -  or bilateral craniofacial malformation and radial defects that result in extremely variable phenotypic manifestations .
alpha - thalassemia - intellectual deficit syndrome linked to chromosome 16  ( atr - 16 )  ,  a contiguous gene deletion syndrome ,  is a form of alpha - thalassemia characterized by microcytosis ,  hypochromia ,  normal hemoglobin  ( hb )  level or mild anemia ,  associated with developmental abnormalities .
herniation of the upper part of the stomach through the diaphragm .
any hirschsprung disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ret gene .
hereditary progressive mucinous histiocytosis is a rare ,  benign ,  non - langerhans cell histiocytosis characterized by childhood or adolescence onset of multiple ,  small ,  asymptomatic ,  slowly progressing ,  skin - colored to red - brown papules with predilection for the face ,  dorsal hands ,  forearms and legs ,  without associated mucosal or visceral involvement .
beukes familial hip dysplasia  ( bfhd )  is a primary bone dysplasia ,  characterized by premature degenerative arthropathy of the hip .
tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 associated periodic syndrome  ( traps )  is a periodic fever syndrome ,  characterized by recurrent fever ,  arthralgia ,  myalgia and tender skin lesions lasting for 1 to 3 weeks ,  associated with skin ,  joint ,  ocular and serosal inflammation and complicated by secondary amyloidosis .
any familial acne inversa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ncstn gene .
holt - oram syndrome  ( hos )  is the most common form of heart - hand syndrome and is characterized by skeletal abnormalities of the upper limbs and mild - to - severe congenital cardiac defects .
any holoprosencephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the shh gene .
a rare disorder caused by mutations in the tgif gene mapped to chromosome 18p11 .3 .
congenital horner syndrome is a rare neurological disorder characterized by relative pupillary miosis and blepharoptosis ,  evident at birth ,  caused by interruption of the oculosympathetic innervation at any point along the neural pathway from the hypothalamus to the orbit .
humero - radial synostosis is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital joint formation defect disorder characterized by uni -  or bilateral fusion of the humerus and radius bones at the elbow level ,  with or without associated ulnar and carpal / metacarpal deficiency ,  leading to loss of elbow motion and ,  in many cases ,  functional arm incapacity .
chst3 - related skeletal dysplasia is a very rare bone disorder characterized clinically by short stature of prenatal onset ;  dislocation of the knees ,  hips or elbows ;  club feet ;  limitation of range of motion of large joints ;  progressive kyphosis ;  and occasional scoliosis .
huntington disease  ( hd )  is a rare neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterized by unwanted choreatic movements ,  behavioral and psychiatric disturbances and dementia .
wagner disease is a rare hereditary vitreoretinopathy characterized by an anomaleous vitreous associated with myopia ,  cataract ,  chorioretinal atrophy ,  and peripheral tractional or rhegmatogenous retinal detachment .
congenital hydronephrosis is a renal urinary disease characterized by distension and dilation of the renal pelvis and calyces secondary to various congenital obstructive malformations of the kidneys and urinary tract that can evolve to renal atrophy .
a disorder characterized by a marked pattern of inattention and / or hyperactivity - impulsivity that is inconsistent with developmental level and clearly interferes with functioning in at least two settings  ( e .g .
an autosomal recessive inherited disorder characterized by unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia ,  resulting in harmless intermittent jaundice .
a condition caused by autosomal recessive loss - of - function mutation ( s )  in the cyp24a1 or slc34a1 gene ,  encoding mitochondrial 1 , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin d ( 3 )  24 - hydroxylase ,  and sodium - dependent phosphate transport protein 2a ,  respectively .
an autonomic disorder characterized by excessive sweating of the forehead ,  upper lip ,  perioral region ,  or sternum subsequent to gustatory stimuli .
hyperkeratosis - hyperpigmentation syndrome describes a very rare hyperpigmentation of the skin characterized by tiny hyperpigmented spots mainly on skin exposed to sunlight ,  together with mild punctate palmoplantar papular hyperkeratosis as a major feature .
a genetic skin disorder caused by mutations in the krt9 gene .
a laboratory test result indicating an autosomal dominant condition in which there is increased very low density lipoprotein production ,  which leads to increased triglyceride concentration .
a severe type of hyperlipidemia ,  sometimes familial ,  that is characterized by the elevation of both plasma chylomicrons and triglycerides contained in very - low - density lipoproteins .
worth type autosomal dominant osteosclerosis is a sclerozing bone disorder characterized by generalized skeletal densification ,  particularly of the cranial vault and tubular long bones ,  which is not associated to an increased risk of fracture .
morgagni - stewart - morel syndrome is characterised by thickening of the inner table of the frontal bone ,  sometimes associated with obesity and hypertrichosis .
an autosomal dominant inherited syndrome characterized by the development of parathyroid adenoma or carcinoma ,  ossifying fibroma of the mandible and maxilla ,  renal neoplasms ,  and renal cysts .
over - production of pigment in the eyelid .
an abnormal response to a stimulus applied to the sensory components of the nervous system .
an instance of hypersensitivity pneumonitis that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a condition in which there is an abnormally increased distance between two organs or bodily parts ;  most often ,  this term is referring to an increased distance between the orbits  ( orbital hypertelorism )  .
autosomal dominant form of opitz g / bbb syndrome .
teebi type hypertelorism is a rare genetic disease characterized by hypertelorism with facial features that can closely resemble craniofrontonasal dysplasia ,  such as prominent forehead ,  widow's peak ,  heavy and broad eyebrows ,  long palpebral fissures ,  ptosis ,  high and broad nasal bridge ,  short nose ,  low - set ears ,  natal teeth ,  thin upper lip and a grooved chin ,  as well as limb  ( i .e .
an instance of essential hypertension that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
any malignant hyperthermia of anesthesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ryr1 gene .
pituitary resistance to thyroid hormone is a rare ,  genetic thyroid disease ,  due to reduced pituitary gland responsiveness to thyroid hormone ,  characterized by mild to moderate hyperthyroidism in association with elevated circulating thyroid hormone levels ,  normal or elevated thyroid stimulating hormone ,  and no abnormalities of the pituitary gland on mri .
congenital generalized hypertrichosis ,  ambras type is an extremely rare type of hypertrichosis lanuginosa congenita ,  a congenital skin disease ,  that is characterized by the presence of vellus - type hair on the entire body ,  especially on the face ,  ears and shoulders ,  with the exception of palms ,  soles ,  and mucous membranes .
an instance of hypertriglyceridemia  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
any familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the casr gene .
a familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the gna11 gene on chromosome 19p13 .
hypochondroplasia is characterized by disproportionate short stature ,  mild lumbar lordosis and limited extension of the elbow joints .
a hypogonadotropic hypogonadism that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the gnrhr gene on chromosome 4q13 ,  sometimes in association with mutation in another gene .
mullerian duct anomalies - limb anomalies syndrome is characterised by the association of mullerian duct and distal limb anomalies .
the hdr syndrome is an inherited condition consisting of hypoparathyroidism ,  sensorineural deafness and renal disease .
adult hypophosphatasia  ( a - hpp )  is a mildform of hypophosphatasia characterized by osteomalacia ,  chondrocalcinosis ,  osteoarthropathy ,  stress fractures duringmiddle age ,  and dental anomalies .
monosomy 18p refers to a chromosomal disorder resulting from the deletion of all or part of the short arm of chromosome 18 .
multiple system atrophy  ( msa )  is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by autonomic failure  ( cardiovascular and / or urinary )  ,  parkinsonism ,  cerebellar impairment and corticospinal signs with a median survival of 6 - 9 years .
pallister - hall syndrome  ( phs )  ,  a pleiotropic autosomal dominant malformative disorder ,  is characterized by hypothalamic hamartoma ,  pituitary dysfunction ,  bifid epiglottis ,  polydactyly ,  and ,  more rarely ,  renal abnormalities and genitourinary malformations .
any hypotrichosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdsn gene .
any hypotrichosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hr gene .
ichthyosis hystrix of curth - macklin  ( ihcm )  is a rare type of keratinopathic ichthyosis that is characterized by the presence of severe hyperkeratotic lesions and palmoplantar keratoderma  ( ppk )  .
ichthyosis vulgaris is a common skin disorder passed down through families that leads to dry ,  scaly skin .
ichthyosis - cheek - eyebrow syndrome is characterised by ichthyosis ,  prominent full cheeks and sparse lateral eyebrows .
superficial epidermolytic ichthyosis  ( sei )  is a rare keratinopathic ichthyosis  ( ki )  characterized by the presence of superficial blisters and erosions at birth .
immediate hypersensitivity reaction  -  type i reaction ,  involves immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  - mediated release of chemical mediators from mast cells and basophils .
a condition of decreased or absent presence or activity of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 protein .
a hereditary autosomal dominant condition characterized primarily by single  ( unpaired )  deciduous and permanent maxillary central incisors and short stature .
fused manidbular incisors is an extremely rare dental anomaly that is characterized by the union of two ,  normally separated ,  incisor tooth germs of the primary dentition .
inclusion body myositis  ( ibm )  is a slowly progressive degenerative inflammatory disorder of skeletal muscles characterized by late onset weakness of specific muscles and distinctive histopathological features .
a sporadic or inherited disorder characterized by the focal or diffuse proliferation of the cells of the islets of langerhans in the pancreas .
telescoping or invagination of a part of the intestine into an adjacent segment .
ivic syndrome is a very rare genetic malformation syndrome characterized by upper limb anomalies  ( radial ray defects ,  carpal bone fusion )  ,  extraocular motor disturbances ,  and congenital bilateral non - progressive mixed hearing loss .
johnson neuroectodermal syndrome is characterised by alopecia ,  anosmia or hyposmia ,  conductive deafness with malformed ears and microtia and / or atresia of the external auditory canal ,  and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
jacobsen syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly / mental retardation  ( mca / mr )  contiguous gene syndrome caused by partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 11 .
aase - smith syndrome type i is a very rare genetic disorder characterised by the following congenital malformations: hydrocephalus  ( due to dandy - walker anomaly )  ,  cleft palate ,  and severe joint contractures .
small patella syndrome  ( sps )  is a very rare benign bone dysplasia affecting skeletal structures of the lower limb and the pelvis .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  type 11 ,  is characterised by generalized joint hypermobility often complicated by dislocation of major joints ,  particularly the shoulder but in some cases the kneecap .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fgfr1 gene .
kbg syndrome is a rare condition characterised by a typical facial dysmorphism ,  macrodontia of the upper central incisors ,  skeletal  ( mainly costovertebral )  anomalies and developmental delay .
hereditary keratitis is characterised by opacification and vascularisation of the cornea ,  often associated with macula hypoplasia .
autosomal dominant form of kid syndrome .
any keratoconus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vsx1 gene .
palmoplantar keratoderma - deafness syndrome is a keratinization disorder characterized by focal or diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma .
keratolytic winter erythema is a rare epidermal disease ,  characterized by recurrent centrifugal palmoplantar peeling and erythema presenting seasonal variation  ( cold weather )  .
tylosis with esophageal cancer  ( toc )  is an inherited condition characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma and esophageal cancer .
keratosis palmaris et plantaris - clinodactyly syndrome is characterised by the association of palmoplantar keratosis with clinodactyly of the fifth finger .
any punctate palmoplantar keratoderma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the aagab gene .
focal palmoplantar and gingival keratoderma is a very rare form of focal palmoplantar keratoderma characterized by painful circumscribed hyperkeratotic lesions on weight - bearing areas of soles ,  moderate focal hyperkeratosis of palmar pressure - related areas and an asymptomatic leukokeratosis confined to labial -  and lingual -  attached gingiva .
isolated cloverleaf skull syndrome is a form of craniosynostosis involving multiple sutures  ( coronal ,  lambdoidal ,  sagittal and metopic )  characterized by a trilobular skull of varying severity  ( frontal towering and bossing ,  temporal bulging and a flat posterior skull )  ,  dysmorphic features  ( downslanting palpebral fissures ,  midface hypoplasia ,  and extreme proptosis )  and that is complicated by hydrocephalus ,  cerebral venous hypertension ,  developmental delay / intellectual disability and hind brain herniation .
waardenburg syndrome type 3  ( ws3 )  is a very rare subtype of waardenburg syndrome  ( ws )  that is characterized by limb anomalies in association with congenital hearing loss ,  minor defects in structures arising from neural crest ,  resulting in pigmentation anomalies of eyes ,  hair ,  and skin .
kleine - levin syndrome  ( kls )  is a rare neurological disorder of unknown origin characterised by relapsing - remitting episodes of hypersomnia in association with cognitive and behavioural disturbances .
angio - osteohypertrophic  ( aoh )  syndrome is a congenital vascular bone syndrome  ( cvbs )  characterized by the presence of a vascular malformation in a limb ,  mainly of the arteriovenous type ,  which results in overgrowth of the affected limb .
a hyperekplexia that has material basis in heterozygous ,  homozygous ,  or compound heterozygous mutation in the glra1 gene on chromosome 5q32 .
kyrle disease is rare condition that affects the skin .
lacrimoauriculodentodigital  ( ladd )  syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by hypoplasia ,  aplasia or atresia of the lacrimal system ;  anomalies of the ears and hearing loss ;  hypoplasias ,  apalsias or atresias of the salivary glands ;  dental anomalies and digital malformations .
langer - giedon syndrome ,  also known as trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type 2 ,  is a very rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomaly disorder characterized by bone abnormalities ,  distinctive facial features ,  multiple exostoses ,  and intellectual disability .
larsen syndrome  ( ls )  is a rare skeletal dysplasia characterized by congenital dislocation of large joints ,  foot deformities ,  cervical spine dysplasia ,  scoliosis ,  spatula - shaped distal phalanges and distinctive craniofacial abnormalities ,  including cleft palate .
increased collapsibility of the larynx .
a congenital malformation of the larynx in which there is failure of recanalization of the laryngotracheal tube during gestation .
congenital laryngeal web is a rare malformation consisting of a membrane - like structure that extends across the laryngeal lumen close to the level of the vocal cords .
any tooth agenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wnt10a gene .
legg - calve - perthes disease  ( lcpd )  is the term used to describe uni -  or bilateral avascular necrosis  ( avn )  of the femoral head in children .
a benign smooth muscle neoplasm arising from the body of the uterus .
hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer  ( hlrcc )  is a hereditary cancer syndrome characterized by a predisposition to cutaneous and uterine leiomyomas and ,  in some families ,  to renal cell cancer .
small circumscribed melanoses resembling ,  but differing histologically from ,  freckles .
familial generalized lentiginosis is a rare ,  inherited ,  skin hyperpigmentation disorder characterized by widespread lentigines without associated noncutaneous abnormalities .
lenz - majewski hyperostotic dwarfism is an extremely rare syndrome associating dwarfism ,  characteristic facial appearance ,  cutis laxa and progressive bone sclerosis .
noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines  ( nsml )  ,  previously known as leopard syndrome ,  is a rare multisystem genetic disorder characterized by lentigines ,  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  short stature ,  pectus deformity ,  and dysmorphic facial features .
leri pleonosteosis is characterized by broadening and deformity of the thumbs and great toes in a valgus position  ( a 'spade - shaped' appearance )  ,  flexion contracture of the interphalangeal joints ,  generalized limitation of joint mobility ,  short stature ,  and often mongoloid facies .
acute monoblastic leukemia  ( aml - m5 )  ,  is one of the most common subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  that is either comprised of more than 80% of monoblasts  ( aml - m5a )  or 30 - 80% monoblasts with  ( pro ) monocytic differentiation  ( aml - m5b )  .
a chronic inflammatory process affecting the skin .
any inherited isolated nail anomaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the plcd1 gene .
an instance of lichen planus that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
any li - fraumeni syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tp53 gene .
median nodule of the upper lip is a minor trait of the lip transmitted in an autosomal dominant fashion .
familial partial lipodystrophy ,  dunnigan type  ( fpld2 )  is a rare form of genetic lipodystrophy characterized by a loss of subcutaneous adipose tissue from the trunk ,  buttocks and limbs ;  fat accumulation in the neck ,  face ,  axillary and pelvic regions ;  muscular hypertrophy ;  and usually associated with metabolic complications such as insulin resistance ,  diabetes mellitus ,  dyslipidemia and liver steatosis .
multiple symmetric lipomatosis  ( msl )  is a rare subcutaneous tissue disease characterized by growth of symmetric non - encapsulated masses of adipose tissue mostly around the face and neck with variable clinical repercussions  ( e .g .
familial multiple lipomatosis is a rare ,  benign ,  genetic skin disease characterized by numerous ,  painless ,  encapsulated lipomas located in the subcutaneous adipose tissue of the trunk and extremities ,  with relative sparing of the neck and shoulders .
an autoimmune multi - organ disease typically associated with vasculopathy and autoantibody production .
primary intestinal lymphangiectasia  ( pil )  is a rare intestinal disease characterized by dilated intestinal lacteals which cause lymph leakage into the small bowel lumen .
lymphedema - cerebral arteriovenous anomaly syndrome is characterised by the variable association of a cerebrovascular malformation ,  foot lymphoedema and primary pulmonary hypertension .
microcephaly with or without chorioretinopathy ,  lymphedema or intellectual disability  ( mclid )  is a rare autosomal dominant condition characterized by variable expression of microcephaly ,  ocular disorders including chorioretinopathy ,  congenital lymphedema of the lower limbs ,  and mild to moderate intellectual disability .
any hereditary lymphedema in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the flt4 gene .
meige disease is a frequent form of late - onset ,  primary lymphedema characterized by lower limb lymphedema typically developing during puberty .
yellow nail syndrome  ( yns )  is a very rare syndromic disorder characterized by the variable triad of characteristic yellow nails ,  chronic respiratory manifestations ,  and primary lymphedema .
lymphedema  -  distichiasis is a rare syndromic lymphedema disorder characterized by lower - limb lymphedema and varying degrees of abnormal growth of eyelashes from the orifices of the meibomian glands  ( distichiasis )  ,  with occasional associated manifestations .
bannayan - riley - ruvalcaba syndrome  ( brrs )  is a rare congenital disorder characterized by hamartomatous intestinal polyposis ,  lipomas ,  macrocephaly and genital lentiginosis .
a myelodysplastic syndrome characterized by a deletion between bands q31 and 33 on chromosome 5 .
waldenstrom macroglobulinemia  ( wm )  is an indolent b - cell lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by the accumulation of monoclonal cells in the bone marrow and peripheral lymphoid tissues ,  and associated with the production of serum immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  monoclonal protein .
a bernard - soulier syndrome characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of mild to moderate bleeding tendency ,  thrombocytopenia ,  and an increased mean platelet size that has material basis in heterozygous mutations in the gp1ba gene on chromosome 17p .
best vitelliform macular dystrophy  ( bvmd )  is a genetic macular dystrophy characterized by loss of central visual acuity ,  metamorphopsia and a decrease in the arden ratio secondary to an egg yolk - like lesion located in the foveal or parafoveal region .
an age related macular degeneration conferred by variation in the abca4 gene on chromosome 1p22 .
benign concentric annular macular dystrophy  ( bcamd )  is a progressive autosomal dominant macular dystrophy characterized by parafoveal hypopigmentation followed by a retinitis pigmentosa - like phenotype  ( nyctalopia and peripheral vision loss )  with a bullbs eye configuration .
cystoid macular dystrophy is an autosomal dominantly inherited cystoid macular edema manifesting with macular atrophy ,  strabismus and ,  sometimes ,  pericentral retinitis pigmentosa .
autosomal dominant primary hypomagnesemia with hypocalciuria  ( adphh )  is a mild form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  ,  characterized by extreme weakness ,  tetany and convulsions .
sex reversal in an individual associated with a 9p24 .3 deletion .
nager syndrome ,  also called nager acrofacial dysostosis  ( nafd )  is a congenital malformation syndrome characterized by mandibulofacial dystosis  ( malar hypoplasia ,  micrognathia ,  external ear malformations )  and variable preaxial limb defects .
any treacher - collins syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tcof1 gene .
marcus - gunn syndrome is characterised by ptosis associated with maxillopalpebral synkinesis .
marfan syndrome is a disorder of the connective tissue .
marshall syndrome is a malformation syndrome that is characterized by facial dysmorphism ,  severe hypoplasia of the nasal bones and frontal sinuses ,  ocular involvement ,  early - onset hearing loss ,  skeletal and anhidrotic ectodermal anomalies and short stature with spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia and early - onset osteoarthritis .
a clonal myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by the proliferation and accumulation of neoplastic mast cells in one or multiple organs or organ systems .
binder syndrome is a rare developmental anomaly ,  affecting primarily the anterior part of the maxilla and nasal complex .
an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by the triad of thrombocytopenia ,  giant platelets ,  and characteristic inclusions in peripheral blood leukocytes .
a congenital pouch in the distal ileum .
pai syndrome is an idiopathic developmental disorder characterized by median cleft of the upper lip  ( mcl )  ,  midline polyps of the facial skin and nasal mucosa ,  and pericallosal lipomas .
an instance of thyroid medullary carcinoma that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a malignant ,  invasive embryonal neoplasm arising from the cerebellum .
megacystis microcolon intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome  ( mmihs )  is a rare congenital disease characterized by massive abdominal distension caused by a largely dilated non - obstructed urinary bladder  ( megacystis )  ,  microcolon and decreased or absent intestinal peristalsis .
a condition in which a finger or toe is larger than normal size secondary to excessive growth of the anatomical structures or abnormal accumulation of substances .
clinically atypical nevi  ( usually exceeding 5 mm in diameter and having variable pigmentation and ill defined borders )  with an increased risk for development of non - familial cutaneous malignant melanoma .
melanoma and neural system tumor syndrome is an extremely rare tumor association characterized by dual predisposition to melanoma and neural system tumors  ( typically astrocytoma )  .
the melkersson - rosenthal syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by a triad of recurrent orofacial swelling ,  relapsing facial paralysis and fissured tongue and onset in childhood or early adolescence .
melorheostosis is a rare connective tissue disorder characterized by a sclerosing bone dysplasia ,  usually limited to one side of the body  ( rarely bilateral )  ,  that manifests with pain ,  stiffness ,  joint contractures and deformities .
delayed membranous cranial ossification is a rare ,  genetic primary bone dysplasia characterized by absent ossification of calvarial bones at birth and characteristic facial dysmorphisms  ( frontal bossing ,  hypertelorism ,  downward - slanting palpebral fissures ,  proptosis ,  flat nasal bridge ,  low - set ears ,  midface retrusion )  .
a disease of the inner ear  ( labyrinth )  that is characterized by fluctuating sensorineural hearing loss ;  tinnitus ;  episodic vertigo ;  and aural fullness .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the mbd5 gene ,  encoding methyl - cpg - binding domain protein 5 .
mesomelic dysplasia kantaputra type  ( mdk )  is a rare skeletal disease characterized by symmetric shortening of the middle segments of limbs and short stature .
metachondromatosis  ( mc )  is a rare disorder characterized by the presence of both multiple enchondromas and osteochondroma - like lesions .
jansen's metaphyseal chondrodysplasia  ( jmc )  is a very rare autosomal dominant skeletal dysplasia characterized by short - limbed short stature  ( due to severe metaphyseal changes that are often discovered in childhood by imaging )  ,  waddling gait ,  bowed legs ,  contracture deformities of the joints ,  short hands with clubbed fingers ,  clinodactyly ,  prominent upper face and small mandible ,  as well as chronic parathyroid hormone - independent hypercalcemia ,  hypercalciuria ,  and mild hypophosphatemia .
schmid metaphyseal chondrodysplasia is a rare disorder characterized by moderately short stature with short limbs ,  coxa vara ,  bowlegs and an abnormal gait .
metaphyseal dysplasia - maxillary hypoplasia - brachydacty syndrome is characterized by metaphyseal dysplasia associated with short stature and facial dysmorphism  ( a beaked nose ,  short philtrum ,  thin lips ,  maxillary hypoplasia ,  dystrophic yellowish teeth )  and acral anomalies  ( short fifth metacarpals and / or short middle phalanges of fingers two and five )  .
metatropic dysplasia  ( mtd )  is a rare spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia characterized by a long trunk and short limbs in infancy followed by severe and progressive kyphoscoliosis causing a reversal in proportions during childhood  ( short trunk and long limbs )  and a final short stature in adulthood .
kniest dysplasia is a severe type ii collagenopathy characterized by a short trunk and limbs ,  prominent joints and midface hypoplasia  ( round face with a flat nasal root )  .
autosomal dominant form of microcephaly  ( disease )  .
2 mm in diameter )  from birth ,  peripheral iris hypopigmentation and transillumination defects leading to errors of refraction  ( myopia ,  astigmatism )  and sometimes juvenile open angle glaucoma .
microcephaly - deafness - intellectual disability syndrome is characterised by microcephaly ,  deafness ,  intellectual deficit and facial dysmorphism  ( facial asymmetry ,  prominent glabella ,  low - set and cup - shaped ears ,  protruding lower lip ,  micrognathia )  .
microcornea - glaucoma - absent frontal sinuses syndrome is characterised by microcornea ,  glaucoma and absent frontal sinuses .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of microgastria with a limb reduction defect .
microspherophakia  -  metaphyseal dysplasia is a very rare syndrome associating bone dysplasia with micromelic dwarfism and eye defects .
a rare disorder characterized by the partial separation of the cerebral hemispheres .
any familial congenital mirror movements in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dcc gene .
autosomal dominant form of progressive external ophthalmoplegia .
an instance of mitral valve prolapse  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
cardiospondylocarpofacial syndrome is characterized by mitral insufficiency ,  conductive deafness ,  short stature ,  and skeletal anomalies  ( bony fusion involving the cervical vertebrae ,  the ossicles ,  and the carpal and tarsal bones )  .
moebius syndrome is a very rare congenital cranial dysinnervation disorder characterized by complete or incomplete facial paralysis in association with bilateral palsy of the abducens nerve causing impairment of ocular abduction .
dental ankylosis is a rare disorder characterized by the fusion of the tooth to the bone ,  preventing both eruption and orthodontic movement .
momo syndrome is a very rare genetic overgrowth / obesity syndrome characterized by macrocephaly ,  obesity ,  mental  ( intellectual )  disability and ocular abnormalities .
monilethrix is a rare genodermatosis characterized by a hair shaft dysplasia resulting in hypotrichosis .
monosomy 9p is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by psychomotor developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism  ( trigonocephaly ,  midface hypoplasia ,  upslanting palpebral fissures ,  dysplastic small ears ,  flat nasal bridge with anteverted nostrils and long philtrum ,  micrognathia ,  choanal atresia ,  short neck )  ,  single umbilical artery ,  omphalocele ,  inguinal or umbilical hernia ,  genital abnormalities  ( hypospadia ,  cryptorchidism )  ,  muscular hypotonia and scoliosis .
a sensation of discomfort that results from a discordant relationship between visualized movement and any movement sensed by the vestibular system ,  which is characterized by dizziness ,  nausea ,  and vomiting .
hereditary mucoepithelial dysplasia  ( hmd )  is a condition that affects the skin ,  hair ,  mucosa  ( areas ofthe body that are lined with mucus )  ,  gums  ( gingiva )  ,  eyes ,  nose and lungs .
muir - torre syndrome  ( mts )  is a form of hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer  ( hnpcc )  characterized by cutaneous sebaceous tumors ,  keratoacanthomas and at least one visceral malignancy ,  most frequently gastrointestinal carcinoma .
deficiency of the glycoprotein wnt4 ,  associated with loss of function mutation ( s )  in the wnt4 gene .
any cowden disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pten gene .
this disorder is characterized by muscular atrophy ,  ataxia ,  retinitis pigmentosa ,  and diabetes mellitus .
any neuronopathy ,  distal hereditary motor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc5a7 gene .
any neuronopathy ,  distal hereditary motor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hspb8 gene .
a usually autosomal dominant inherited movement disorder caused by mutations in the col6a1 ,  col6a2 ,  and col6a3 genes .
any facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the frg1 gene .
any facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the smchd1 gene .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 1a  ( lgmd1a )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by an adult onset of proximal shoulder and hip girdle weakness  ( that later progresses to include distal weakness )  ,  nasal speech and dysarthria .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 1b  ( lgmd1b )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a variable age of onset of progressive shoulder and hip girdle weakness ,  with inferior limbs usually being affected prior to upper limbs ,  and mild joint contractures .
ataxia - pancytopenia syndrome is a rare genetic disease characterized by cerebellar ataxia ,  cytopenias and predisposition to bone marrow failure and myeloid leukaemia .
tropical spastic paraparesis is a chronic systemic immune - mediated inflammatory myeloneuropathy ,  more frequently reported in women than in men ,  that usually presents in adulthood with slowly progressive spastic paraparesis of the lower limbs ,  bladder and bowel dysfunction ,  and sensory disturbances in the lower extremities  ( e .g .
a myeloid proliferation occurring in newborns with down syndrome .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of myoclonus ,  cerebellar ataxia and sensorineural hearing loss .
any myoclonus - dystonia syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sgce gene .
spinal muscular atrophy - progressive myoclonic epilepsy syndrome is characterized by hereditary myoclonus and progressive distal muscular atrophy .
autosomal dominant myoglobinuria is a rare metabolic myopathy characterized by episodic myalgia with myoglobinuria which is induced by fever ,  viral or bacterial infection ,  prolonged exercise or alcohol abuse ,  and could ,  on occasion ,  lead to acute renal failure .
episodic ataxia type 1  ( ea1 )  is a frequent form of hereditary episodic ataxia  ( ea )  characterized by brief episodes of ataxia ,  neuromyotonia ,  and continuous interictal myokymia .
autosomal dominant centronuclear myopathy  ( ad - cnm )  is an inherited neuromuscular disorder defined by numerous centrally placed nuclei on muscle biopsy and clinical features of a congenital myopathy .
laing distal myopathy ,  also called myopathy distal ,  type 1  ( mpd1 )  ,  is characterized by early - onset selective weakness of the great toe and ankle dorsiflexors ,  and a very slowly progressive course .
tubular aggregate myopathy is a disorder that affects the skeletal muscles .
juvenile dermatomyositis  ( jdm )  is the early - onset form of dermatomyositis  ( dm )  ,  a systemic ,  autoimmune inflammatory muscle disorder ,  characterized by proximal muscle weakness ,  evocative skin lesion ,  and systemic manifestations .
steinert disease ,  also known as myotonic dystrophy type 1 ,  is a muscle disease characterized by myotonia and by multiorgan damage that combines various degrees of muscle weakness ,  arrhythmia and / or cardiac conduction disorders ,  cataract ,  endocrine damage ,  sleep disorders and baldness .
any carney complex in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkar1a gene .
cylindrical spirals myopathy is a rare form of congenital myopathy characterized by global muscle weakness ,  hypotonia ,  myotonia and cramps in the presence of cylindrical ,  spiral - shaped inclusions  ( located in the central and / or subsacrolemmal areas of muscle fibers )  in skeletal muscle biopsy .
naegeli - franceschetti - jadassohn  ( nfj )  syndrome is a rare ectodermal dysplasia that affects the skin ,  sweat glands ,  nails ,  and teeth .
nail dysplasia is an idiopathic nail dystrophy ,  beginning in early childhood ,  and characterised by excessive longitudinal striations and loss of nail luster affecting all 20 nails .
nail - patella syndrome  ( nps )  is a rare hereditary patellar dysostosis characterized by nail hypoplasia or aplasia ,  aplastic or hypoplastic patellae ,  elbow dysplasia ,  and the presence of iliac horns as well as renal and ocular anomalies .
a rare disorder characterized by sudden and transient episodes of loss of muscle tone .
an inherited myopathy caused by mutations in the acta1 gene ,  encoding actin ,  alpha skeletal muscle .
familial juvenile hyperuricemic nephropathy type 1  ( fjhn1 )  is a rare kidney disorder characterized by hyperuricemia ,  progressive nephropathy ,  and gout occurring at an early age .
neurofibromatosis  ( nf )  type 3  ( nf3 )  ,  also known as schwannomatosis ,  is the least frequent form of the rare genetic disorder neurofibromatosis .
multiple endocrine neoplasia 2b  ( men2b )  syndrome is a rare aggressive form of men2 characterized by medullary thyroid carcinoma  ( mtc )  ,  pheochromocytoma ,  mucosal ganglioneuroma ,  and marfanoid habitus .
a condition associated with mutation ( s )  in the dnajc5 gene ,  encoding dnaj homolog subfamily c member 5 .
an axonal form of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy distinguished by prominent early sensory loss and later positive sensory phenomena ,  caused by mutations in sptlc1 .
hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies  ( hnpp )  is an inherited peripheral nerve disorder characterized by recurrent mononeuropathy usually triggered by minor physical activities .
a hematologic disorder caused by a mutation in the elane  ( ela2 )  gene ;  clinical manifestations include recurrent neutropenia with resultant susceptibility to infection leading to fever .
a leukocyte disease characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of lifelong ,  persistent elevated neutrophil counts primarily consisting of segmented neutrophils that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the csf3r gene on chromosome 1p34 .
a benign ,  pigmented skin growth caused by an overgrowth of the epidermis .
a congenital vascular malformation in the skin  ( birthmark )  characterized by the presence of dilated capillaries .
a capillary vascular anomaly that is characterized by hypopigmented macules .
linear nevus sebaceous syndrome  ( lnss )  is characterized by the association of a large sebaceous nevus ,  usually appearing on the face or on the scalp ,  with a broad spectrum of abnormalities that may affect every organ system ,  including the central nervous system  ( brain neoplasms ,  hemimegalencephaly and lateral ventricle enlargement )  .
any congenital stationary night blindness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pde6b gene .
familial supernumerary nipples is a rare breast malformation characterized by the presence ,  in various members of a single family ,  of one or more nipple ( s )  and / or their related tissue ,  in addition to the normal bilateral chest nipples .
any sick sinus syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hcn4 gene .
noonan syndrome caused by mutations in the ptpn11 gene .
oculocerebrocutaneous syndrome  ( occs )  is a rare congenital disorder associated with an intellectual disability and is typically characterized by the triad of eye ,  central nervous system and skin malformations .
ocular cicatricial pemphigoid  ( ocp )  is a form of mucous membrane pemphigoid  ( a group of rare ,  chronic autoimmune disorders )  that affects the eyes .
oculodentodigital dysplasia  ( oddd )  is characterized by craniofacial ,  neurologic ,  limb and ocular abnormalities .
goldenhar syndrome  ( gs )  ,  also known as oculo - auriculo - vertebral dysplasia  ( oav )  ,  is a rare developmental syndrome characterized by a classic triad of mandibular hypoplasia resulting in facial asymmetry ,  ear and / or eye malformations ,  and vertebral anomalies .
schilbach - rott syndrome  ( srs )  is an autosomal dominant dysmorphic disorder that is characterized by dysmorphic facies with hypotelorism ,  blepharophimosis ,  and cleft palate ,  and the frequent occurrence of hypospadias in males .
a disorder characterized by the presence of persistent and recurrent irrational thoughts  ( obsessions )  ,  resulting in marked anxiety and repetitive excessive behaviors  ( compulsions )  as a way to try to decrease that anxiety .
feingold syndrome type 1  ( fs1 )  is a rare inherited malformation syndrome characterized by microcephaly ,  short stature and numerous digital anomalies .
oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy  ( opmd )  is an adult - onset progressive myopathy characterized by progressive eyelid ptosis ,  dysphagia ,  dysarthria and proximal limb weakness .
odontoma - dysphagia syndrome is a malformation syndrome ,  characterized by odontomas  ( undifferentiated mass of the esophagus )  and severe dysphagia .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 1  ( sca1 )  is a subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  characterized by dysarthria ,  writing difficulties ,  limb ataxia ,  and commonly nystagmus and saccadic abnormalities .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 7  ( sca7 )  ,  currently the only known form of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 2  ( adca2 )  ,  is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive ataxia ,  motor system abnormalities ,  dysarthria ,  dysphagia and retinal degeneration leading to progressive blindness .
autosomal dominant form of omodysplasia .
ophthalmomandibulomelic dysplasia is characterized by complete blindness due to corneal opacities ,  difficult mastication due to temporomandibular fusion and anomalies of the arms .
autosomal dominant optic atrophy  ( adoa )  is one of the most common forms of hereditary optic neuropathy characterized by progressive bilateral visual loss during the first decade of life ,  associated with optic disc pallor ,  visual field and color vision defects .
oral - facial - digital syndrome ,  type 10 is characterized by facial  ( telecanthus ,  flat nasal bridge ,  retrognathia )  ,  oral  ( cleft palate ,  vestibular frenula )  and digital  ( oligodactyly ,  preaxial polydactyly )  features ,  associated with remarkable radial shortening ,  fibular agenesis and coalescence of tarsal bones .
syndromic orbital border hypoplasia is a rare disorder observed in two families to date and characterized by agenesis of the orbital margin ,  varying defects of the lacrimal passages ,  hypoplasia of the palpebral skin and tarsal plates and atresia of the nasolacrimal duct .
oslam syndrome is characterised by the association of osteosarcoma ,  limb anomalies  ( clinodactyly with brachymesophalangy ,  bilateral radioulnar synostosis and absence of one digital ray of the foot )  and red cell macrocytosis without anaemia .
thiemann disease is a very rare genetic necrotic bone disorder characterized clinically by painless swelling of the proximal interphalangeal joints associated with osteonecrosis of epiphyses followed by osteoarthritic changes ,  with onset before 25 years of age and often a benign course .
any osteoarthritis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the frzb gene .
enchondromatosis is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by the development of multiple mainly unilateral or asymmetrically distributed enchondromas throughout the metaphyses of the long bones .
osteogenesis imperfecta type i is a mild type of osteogenesis imperfecta  ( oi )  ,  a genetic disorder characterized by increased bone fragility ,  low bone mass and susceptibility to bone fractures .
osteogenesis imperfecta type ii is a lethal type of osteogenesis imperfecta  ( oi )  ,  a genetic disorder characterized by increased bone fragility ,  low bone mass and susceptibility to bone fractures .
osteogenesis imperfecta type iv is a moderate type of osteogenesis imperfecta  ( oi )  ,  a genetic disorder characterized by increased bone fragility ,  low bone mass and susceptibility to bone fractures .
an osteogenesis imperfecta found in a single south african family .
osteoglophonic dwarfism  ( ogd )  is characterized by dwarfism ,  severe craniofacial abnormalities and multiple unerupted teeth .
gnathodiaphyseal dysplasia  ( gdd )  is a bone dysplasia characterized by bone fragility ,  frequent bone fractures at a young age ,  cemento - osseous lesions of the jaw bones ,  bowing of tubular bones  ( tibia and fibula )  and diaphyseal sclerosis of long bones associated with generalized osteopenia .
idiopathic multicentric osteolysis is a very rare syndrome characterized by progressive loss of bone ,  usually the capsal and tarsal bones ,  resulting in deformity and disability ,  as well as chronic renal failure in many cases .
a rare genetic bone disorder characterized clinically by progressive extraskeletal bone formation presenting in early life with cutaneous ossification ,  that progressively involves subcutaneous and then subsequently deep connective tissues ,  including muscle and fascia .
osteomesopyknosis is a very rare benign bone disorder characterized by bone dysplasia manifested by patchy sclerosis of the axial skeleton and increased bone mineral content .
albers - schoenberg osteopetrosis is a sclerosing disorder of the skeleton characterized by increased bone density that classically displays the radiographic sign of ''sandwich vertebrae''  ( dense bands of sclerosis parallel to the vertebral endplates )  .
buschke - ollendorff syndrome  ( bos )  is a benign disorder characterized by the association of osteopoikilosis lesions  ( ``spotted bones'' )  in the skeleton and connective tissue nevi in the skin .
dacryocystitis  -  osteopoikilosis is an exceedingly rare autosomal dominant disorder reported in only a few patients to date and is characterized by dacryocystitis due to lacrimal canal stenosis , and osteopoikilosis  ( demonastratedr adiologically as discrete spherical osteosclerotic lesions of 2 - 10mm in diameter )  .
metabolic disorder associated with fractures of the femoral neck ,  vertebrae ,  and distal forearm .
otodental syndrome is a very rare inherited condition characterized by grossly enlarged canine and molar teeth  ( globodontia )  associated with sensorineural hearing loss .
otofaciocervical syndrome is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by distinct facial features  ( long triangular face ,  broad forehead ,  narrow nose and mandible ,  high arched palate )  ,  prominent ,  dysmorphic ears  ( low - set and cup - shaped with large conchae and hypoplastic tragus ,  antitragus and lobe )  ,  long neck ,  preauricular and / or branchial fistulas and / or cysts ,  hypoplastic cervical muscles with sloping shoulders and clavicles ,  winged ,  low ,  and laterally - set scapulae ,  hearing impairment and mild intellectual deficit .
southeast asian ovalocytosis  ( sao )  is a rare hereditary red cell membrane defect characterized by the presence of oval - shaped erythrocytes and with most patients being asymptomatic or occasionally manifesting with mild symptoms such as pallor ,  jaundice ,  anemia and gallstones .
a cystic teratoma that arises from the ovary .
a benign neoplasm arising from soft tissue of the ovary .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the ovary .
the presence of a calculus in the pelvis of the kidney ;  this is most often composed of mineral salts and proteins .
any pachyonychia congenita in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt16 gene .
any pachyonychia congenita in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt17 gene .
pacman dysplasia is characterized by epiphyseal stippling and osteoclastic overactivity .
a malignant neoplasm in which there is infiltration of the skin by neoplastic large cells with abundant pale cytoplasm and large nuclei with prominent nucleoli  ( paget cells )  .
a rare autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the vcp gene .
paroxysmal extreme pain disorder is a rare disorder of abnormal pain sensation .
failure of the soft palate to reach the posterior pharyngeal wall to close the opening between the oral and nasal cavities .
nasopalpebral lipoma - coloboma - telecanthus syndrome is characterized by nasopalpebral lipomas ,  bilateral lid coloboma ,  and telecanthus .
annular pancreas is a distinct form of duodenal atresia in which the head of the pancreas forms a ring around the second portion of the duodenum .
hereditary chronic pancreatitis  ( hcp )  ,  a rare inherited form of pancreatitis is defined as recurrent acute pancreatitis and / or chronic pancreatitis in two first - degree relatives or 3 or more second - degree relatives in 2 or more generations ,  for which no predisposing factors are identified .
a rare benign neoplasm that arises in the area of the nipple .
any paraganglioma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sdhd gene .
paramyotonia congenita of von eulenburg is characterised by exercise -  or cold - induced myotonia and muscle weakness .
parastremmatic dwarfism is a very rare chondrodysplasia characterized by severe dwarfism ,  kyphoscoliosis ,  stiffness of large joints and distortion of lower limbs .
any parietal foramina in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the msx2 gene .
parietal foramina with clavicular hypoplasia is a rare genetic bone development disorder characterized by parietal foramina in association with hypoplasia of the clavicles  ( short abnormal clavicles with tapering lateral ends ,  with or without loss of the acromion )  .
perry syndrome is a rare inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by rapidly progressive early - onset parkinsonism ,  central hypoventilation ,  weight loss ,  insomnia and depression .
isolated patella aplasia - hypoplasia is an extremely rare genetic condition characterized by congenital absence or marked reduction of the patellar bone described in only a few families to date .
benign paroxysmal tonic upgaze of childhood with ataxia is a rare paroxysmal movement disorder characterized by episodes of sustained ,  conjugate ,  upward deviation of the eyes and down beating saccades in attempted downgaze  ( with preserved horizontal eye movements )  which is accompanied by ataxic symptomatology  ( unsteady gait ,  lack of balance and movement coordination disturbances )  in an otherwise healthy individual .
familial chondromalacia patellae is an inherited bone disorder described in 5 families in 1963 and is characterized by localized patellar pain and male - to - male transmission .
char syndrome is characterized by the triad of patent ductus arteriosus  ( pda )  ,  facial dysmorphism and hand anomalies .
any patterned macular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prph2 gene .
pseudoleprechaunism syndrome ,  patterson type is a rare ,  genetic ,  adrenal disorder characterized by congenital bronzed hyperpigmentation ,  cutis laxa of the hands and feet ,  body disproportion  ( comprising large hands ,  feet ,  nose and ears )  ,  hirsutism and severe intellectual disability .
a developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed ,  resulting in a funnel - shaped thorax .
an autosomal dominant inherited condition caused by mutations in the lamin b receptor gene .
adult - onset autosomal dominant leukodystrophy  ( adld )  is a rare slowly progressive neurological disorder involving centralnervous systemdemyelination ,  leading to autonomic dysfunction , ataxia and mild cognitive impairment .
pelvis - shoulder dysplasia is a rare focal skeletal dysostosis characterized by symmetrical hypoplasia of the scapulae and the iliac wings of the pelvis .
benign chronic familial pemphigus of hailey - hailey is characterized by rhagades mostly located in the armpits ,  inguinal and perineal folds  ( scrotum ,  vulva )  .
pemphigus is a group of chronic autoimmune skin diseases characterized by blister formations on the outer layer of the skin and the mucous membranes .
prolidase deficiency is an inherited disorder of peptide metabolism characterized by severe skin lesions ,  recurrent infections  ( involving mainly the skin and respiratory system )  ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  variable cognitive impairment ,  and splenomegaly .
andersen's syndrome  ( as )  is a rare disorder characterized by periodic muscle paralysis ,  prolongation of the qt interval with a variety of ventricular arrhythmias  ( leading to predisposition to sudden cardiac death )  and characteristic physical features: short stature ,  scoliosis ,  low - set ears ,  hypertelorism ,  broad nasal root ,  micrognathia ,  clinodactyly ,  brachydactyly and syndactyly .
hypokalemic periodic paralysis  ( hypopp )  is characterised by episodes of muscle paralysis lasting from a few to 24 - 48 hours and associated with a fall in blood potassium levels .
hyperkalemic periodic paralysis  ( hyperpp )  is a muscle disorder characterized by episodic attacks of muscle weakness associated with an increase in serum potassium concentration .
a localized aggressive periodontitis ,  formerly called localized juvenile periodontitis .
megaloblastic anemia caused by vitamin b - 12 deficiency due to impaired absorption .
a condition characterized by hardening of the penis due to the formation of fibrous plaques on the dorsolateral aspect of the penis ,  usually involving the membrane  ( tunica albuginea )  surrounding the erectile tissue  ( corpus cavernosum penis )  .
multiple endocrine neoplasia 2a  ( men2a )  syndrome is a form of men2 characterized by medullary thyroid carcinoma  ( mtc )  in combination with pheochromocytoma and primary mild hyperparathyroidism resulting from hyperplasia or adenoma of the parathyroid cells .
phocomelia - ectrodactyly - deafness - sinus arrhythmia syndrome is characterised by phocomelia  ( involving arms more severely )  ,  ectrodactyly ,  ear anomalies  ( bilateral anomalies of the pinnae )  ,  conductive deafness ,  dysmorphism  ( long and prominent philtrum ,  mild maxillary hypoplasia )  and sinus arrhythmia .
a rare neurodegenerative disorder leading to dementia .
piebaldism is a rare congenital pigmentation skin disorder characterized by the presence of hypopigmented and depigmented skin areas  ( leukoderma )  on various parts of the body ,  preferentially on the forehead ,  chest ,  abdomen ,  upper arms ,  and lower extremities ,  that are associated with a white forelock  ( poliosis )  ,  and in some cases with hypopigmented and depigmented eyebrows and eyelashes .
piebald trait - neurologic defects syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  pigmentation anomaly of the skin syndrome characterized by ventral as well as dorsal leukoderma of the trunk and a congenital white forelock ,  in association with cerebellar ataxia ,  impaired motor coordination ,  intellectual disability of variable severity and progressive ,  mild to profound ,  uni -  or bilateral sensorineural hearing loss .
pigmented paravenous retinochoroidal atrophy  ( pprca )  is a rare ,  commonly bilateral and symmetric retinal disease characterized by non - progressive or slowly progressive chorioretinal atrophy ,  peripapillary pigmentary changes and accumulation of ''bone - corpuscle'' pigmentation along the retinal veins and which is usually asymptomatic or can present with mild blurred vision .
robin sequence - oligodactyly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by robin sequence  ( i .e .
a hair - containing cyst or sinus ,  occurring chiefly in the coccygeal region .
pityriasis rubra pilaris is a rare chronic papulosquamous disorder of unknown etiology characterized by small follicular papules ,  scaly red - orange patches ,  and palmoplantar hyperkeratosis ,  which may progress to plaques or erythroderma .
familial spontaneous pneumothorax is a rare ,  genetic pulmonary disease characterized by the uni -  or bilateral accumulation of air in the pleural cavity in persons with a positive family history and no underlying lung disease or previous chest trauma .
kindler syndrome  ( ks )  is the fourth major type of epidermolysis bullosa  ( eb )  ,  besides simplex ,  junctional and dystrophic forms ,  and is characterized by skin fragility and blistering at birth followed by development of photosensitivity and progressive poikilodermatous skin changes .
poland syndrome is marked by a unilateral absence or hypoplasia of the pectoralis major muscle  ( most frequently involving the sternocostal portion )  ,  and a variable degree of ipsilateral hand anomalies ,  including symbrachydactyly .
any autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pkd1 gene .
a genetic kidney disease that causes progressive loss of kidney function caused by mutations in the genes encoding uromodulin  ( umod )  ,  hepatocyte nuclear factor - 1  ( hnf1b )  ,  renin  ( ren )  ,  or mucin - 1  ( muc1 )  .
a oolycystic liver disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkcsh gene ,  and is characterized by the appearance of numerous cysts spread throughout the liver .
oral - facial - digital syndrome ,  type 5 is characterized by median cleft of the upper lip ,  postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet ,  and oral manifestations  ( duplicated frenulum )  .
polydactyly - myopia syndrome is an exceedingly rare autosomal dominant developmental anomaly reported in 1986 in nine individuals among four generations of the same family .
polydactyly of a biphalangeal thumb or ppd1 is the most common form of preaxial polydactyly of fingers ,  a limb malformation syndrome ,  that is characterized by the duplication of one or more skeletal components of a biphalangeal thumb .
polydactyly of a triphalangeal thumb or ppd2 is a form of preaxial polydactyly of fingers ,  a limb malformation syndrome ,  that is characterized by the presence of a usually opposable triphalangeal thumb with or without additional duplication of one or more skeletal components of the thumb .
polydactyly of an index finger or ppd3 is a form of preaxial polydactyly of fingers ,  a limb malformation syndrome ,  where the thumb is replaced by one or two triphalangeal digits with dermatoglyphic pattern specific of the index finger .
polysyndactyly or ppd4 is a form of preaxial polydactyly of fingers ,  a limb malformation syndrome ,  characterized by the presence of a thumb showing the mildest degree of duplication ,  being broad ,  bifid or with radially deviated distal phalanx .
fibrous dysplasia affecting more than one bone .
a polyp that arises from the stomach .
peutz - jeghers syndrome  ( pjs )  is an inherited gastrointestinal disorder characterized by development of characteristic hamartomatous polyps throughout the gastrointestinal  ( gi )  tract ,  and by mucocutaneous pigmentation .
cronkhite - canada syndrome  ( ccs )  is a rare gastrointestinal  ( gi )  polyposis syndrome characterized by the association of non - hereditary gi polyposis with the cutaneous triad of alopecia ,  nail changes and hyperpigmentation .
crossed polysyndactyly is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation disorder characterized by unilateral or bilateral postaxial polydactyly in the hands and preaxial polydactyly in the feet ,  associated with bilateral cutaneous syndactyly of first ,  second and third toes .
greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome  ( gcps )  is a pleiotropic ,  multiple congenital anomaly syndrome .
a synovial cyst located in the back of the knee ,  in the popliteal space arising from the semimembranous bursa or the knee joint .
any porencephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col4a1 gene .
porokeratosis plantaris palmaris et disseminata  ( pppd )  is a rare form of porokeratosis occurring mainly in adolescence and characterized by small pruritic or painful keratotic papules that first appear on the palms and soles ,  and may gradually become generalized .
punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type 2 is a type of isolated ,  punctate ,  hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma characterized by multiple ,  asymptomatic ,  1 to 2 mm - long ,  firm ,  hyperkeratotic projections  (  \ "spiny keratosis \ " )  on the palms ,  soles and digits  ( typically confined to their volar and / or lateral aspects )  .
acute intermittent porphyria is the most frequent and the most severe form of the acute hepatic porphyrias .
an instance of porphyria cutanea tarda that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an instance of porphyria cutanea tarda that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
variegate porphyria is a form of acute hepatic porphyria characterized by the occurrence of neuro - visceral attacks with or without the presence of cutaneous lesions .
postaxial tetramelic oligodactyly is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation disorder characterized by isolated ,  postaxial oligodactyly in all four extremities .
prader - willi syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by hypothalamic - pituitary abnormalities with severe hypotonia during the neonatal period and first two years of life and the onset of hyperphagia with a risk of morbid obesity during infancy and adulthood ,  learning difficulties and behavioral problems or severe psychiatric problems .
guttmacher syndrome is an extremely rare syndrome characterized by hypoplastic thumbs and halluces ,  5th finger clinobrachydactyly ,  postaxial polydactyly of the hands ,  short or uniphalangeal 2nd toes with absent nails and hypospadias .
any central precocious puberty in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kiss1r gene .
familial male limited precocious puberty  ( fmpp )  is a gonadotropin - independent familial form of male - limited precocious puberty ,  generally presenting between 2 - 5 years of age as accelerated growth ,  early development of secondary sexual characteristics and reduced adult height .
currarino syndrome  ( cs )  is a rare congenital disease characterized by the triad of anorectal malformations  ( arms )   ( usually anal stenosis )  ,  presacral mass  ( commonly anterior sacral meningocele  ( asm )  or teratoma )  and sacral anomalies  ( i .e .
a cerebral amyloid angiopathy characterized by onset in the 4th to 6th decade of life ,  progressive mental deterioration ,  spasticity ,  muscular rigidity but no tremors ,  spontaneous movements or sensory changes that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of itm2b on chromosome 13q14 .2 .
hutchinson - gilford progeria syndrome is a rare ,  fatal ,  autosomal dominant and premature aging disease ,  beginning in childhood and characterized by growth reduction ,  failure to thrive ,  a typical facial appearance  ( prominent forehead ,  protuberant eyes ,  thin nose with a beaked tip ,  thin lips ,  micrognathia and protruding ears )  and distinct dermatologic features  ( generalized alopecia ,  aged - looking skin ,  sclerotic and dimpled skin over the abdomen and extremities ,  prominent cutaneous vasculature ,  dyspigmentation ,  nail hypoplasia and loss of subcutaneous fat )  .
progeria - short stature - pigmented nevi is a progeroid disorder characterised by low birthweight ,  short stature ,  multiple pigmented nevi and lack of facial subcutaneous fat .
malocclusion in which the mandible is anterior to the maxilla as reflected by the first relationship of the first permanent molar  ( mesioclusion )  .
a primary or metastatic malignant tumor involving the prostate gland .
proteus syndrome  ( ps )  is a very rare and complex hamartomatous overgrowth disorder characterized by progressive overgrowth of the skeleton ,  skin ,  adipose ,  and central nervous systems .
erythropoietic protoporphyria caused by a compound heterozygous or homozygous mutation in the gene encoding ferrochelatase  ( fech )  on chromosome 18q21 .
pseudoachondroplasia is characterized by severe growth deficiency and deformations such as bow legs and hyperlordosis .
liddle syndrome is a rare inherited form of hypertension characterized by severe early - onset hypertension associated with decreased plasmatic levels of potassium ,  renin and aldosterone .
an autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in the loxl1 gene ,  encoding lysyl oxidase homolog 1 .
renal pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1  ( renal pha1 )  is a mild form of primary mineralocorticoid resistance restricted to the kidney .
apparent optic disc swelling in the absence of increased intracranial pressure .
platelet type von willebrand disease  ( pt - vwd )  is a bleeding disorder characterized by mild to moderate mucocutaneous bleeding ,  which becomes more pronounced during pregnancy or following ingestion of drugs that have anti - platelet activity .
an autosomal dominant form of pxe .
any psoriasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hla - c gene .
short stature - craniofacial anomalies - genital hypoplasia syndrome is characterized by the association of short stature ,  craniofacial anomalies and genital hypoplasia .
familial pterygium of the conjunctiva is a rare form of pterygium ,  which develops in early adulthood ,  characterized by a wing - like bulbar thickening of the conjunctiva in the interpalpebral fissure area that can be cured by surgical excision .
congenital ptosis is characterized by superior eyelid drop present at birth .
ptosis - strabismus - ectopic pupils syndrome is characterised by the association of ptosis ,  strabismus and ectopic pupils .
pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect  ( pa - vsd )  is a rare cyanotic congenital heart malformation characterized by underdevelopment of the right ventricular outflow tract and atresia of the pulmonary valve ,  ventricular septal defect  ( vsd )  and pulmonary collateral vessels .
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis  ( ipf )  is a nonneoplastic pulmonary disease that is characterized by the formation of scar tissue within the lungs in the absence of any known cause .
idiopathic pulmonary hemosiderosis is a respiratory disease due to repeated episodes of diffuse alveolar hemorrhage without any underlying apparent cause ,  most often in children .
idiopathic and / or familial pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( ifpah )  is a form or pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah ,  see his term )  characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure ;  it is progressive and potentially fatal .
pulmonary nodular lymphoid hyperplasia  ( pnhl )  is a reactive lymphoid proliferation manifesting as solitary or multiple nodules in the lung .
radial hypoplasia - triphalangeal thumbs - hypospadias - maxillary diastema syndrome is characterised by symmetric ,  nonopposable triphalangeal thumbs and radial hypoplasia .
radial ray hypoplasia  -  choanal atresia is an extremely rare syndrome characterized by radial ray hypoplasia ,  choanal atresia and convergent strabismus .
radio - renal syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by variable upper limb reduction defects and renal anomalies .
an episodic vasoconstriction resulting in discoloration of the skin and pain in the affected areas ,  often involving fingers or toes .
recombinant 8  ( rec ( 8 )  )  syndrome ,  also known as san luis valley syndrome ,  is a complex chromosomal disorder that is due to a parental pericentric inversion of chromosome 8 and is characterized by major congenital heart anomalies ,  urogenital malformations ,  moderate to severe intellectual deficiency and mild craniofacial dysmorphism .
autosomal dominant distal renal tubular acidosis  ( ad drta )  is an inherited form of distal renal tubular acidosis  ( drta )  characterized by hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis often but not always associated with hypokalemia .
proximal renal tubular acidosis  ( prta )  is a tubular kidney disease characterized by impaired ability of the proximal tubule to reabsorb bicarbonate from the glomerular filtrate leading to hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
a pigmentation disease characterized by a reticulate pattern of abnormally dark skin coloring ,  particularly in the body's folds and creases .
an eye emergency condition which may lead to blindness if left untreated .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rp1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rp9 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the impdh1 gene .
a malignant tumor that originates in the nuclear layer of the retina .
a retinitis pigmentosa that is characterized pigmentary retinal degeneration with onset in the teens leading to blindness in the sixth ans seventh decades of life .
autosomal dominant form of retinoschisis .
a chronic ,  systemic autoimmune disorder characterized by inflammation in the synovial membranes and articular surfaces .
a particular variant of polyarthritis associated with early manifestations of palindromic rheumatism ,  radiologic subchondral bone cysts ,  and subcutaneous rheumatoid nodules .
a rare autosomal dominant syndrome linked to mutations in the pitx2 gene .
ring dermoid of cornea is characterised by annular limbal dermoids  ( growths with a skin - like structure )  with corneal and conjunctival extension .
pili annulati is an isolated ,  benign hair shaft abnormality ,  usually presenting after the age of 2 and affecting the hair of the scalp or very rarely beard ,  axillary ,  or pubic hair ,  that is characterized by a banded or speckled appearance due to alternating light bands  ( corresponding to air - filled cavities within the cortex of the affected hair shafts )  and dark bands .
autosomal dominant robinow syndrome  ( drs )  is the more common type of robinow syndrome  ( rs )  characterized by mild to moderate limb shortening and abnormalities of the head ,  face and external genitalia .
rombo syndrome is characterized by vermiculate atrophoderma ,  milia ,  hypotrichosis ,  trichoepitheliomas ,  peripheral vasodilation with cyanosis and basal cell carcinomas .
any rubinstein - taybi syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crebbp gene .
silver - russell syndrome is characterized by growth retardation with antenatal onset ,  characteristic facies and limb asymmetry .
ruvalcaba syndrome is an extremely rare malformation syndrome ,  described in less than 10 patients to date ,  characterized by microcephaly with characteristic facies  ( downslanting parpebral fissures ,  microstomia ,  beaked nose ,  narrow maxilla )  ,  very short stature ,  narrow thoracic cage with pectus carinatum ,  hypoplastic genitalia and skeletal anomalies  ( i .e .
oculodental syndrome ,  rutherfurd type is a rare genetic disorder that is primarily characterized by the classical triad of gingival fibromatosis ,  non - eruption of tooth and corneal dystrophy  ( bilateral corneal vascularization and opacity )  .
aplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands  ( alsg )  is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by aplasia ,  atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying features since infancy such as recurrent eye infections ,  irritable eyes ,  epiphora ,  xerostomia ,  dental caries ,  dental erosion and oral inflammation .
any sarcoidosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hla - drb1 gene .
presence of small calculi in the terminal salivary ducts  ( salivary sand )  ,  or stones  ( larger calculi )  found in the larger ducts .
a neoplasm characterized by the presence of benign epithelial and myoepithelial cells and a mesenchymal component that may contain mucoid ,  myxoid ,  cartilaginous ,  or osseous areas .
cleft palate - large ears - small head syndrome is a rare ,  genetic syndrome characterized by cleft palate ,  large protruding ears ,  microcephaly and short stature  ( prenatal onset )  .
scalp defects - postaxial polydactyly syndrome is characterised by congenital scalp defects and postaxial polydactyly type a .
scalp - ear - nipple syndrome is characterised by the following triad: areas of hairless raw skin over the scalp  ( present at birth and healing during childhood )  ,  prominent ,  hypoplastic ears with almost absent pinnae ,  and bilateral amastia .
autosomal recessive form of emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy .
a disorder characterized by osteochondrosis of the vertebral epiphyses in childhood .
ulnar - mammary syndrome  ( ums )  is a rare developmental disorder characterized by ulnar defects ,  mammary and apocrine gland hypoplasia and genital anomalies .
an intestinal infection that is caused by schistosoma japonicum .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd1 on chromosome 5q23 - q35 .
a common benign skin neoplasm usually affecting older individuals .
flat face - microstomia - ear anomaly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by dysmorphic facial features ,  including high forehead ,  elongated and flattened midface ,  arched and sparse eyebrows ,  short palpebral fissures ,  telecanthus ,  long nose with hypoplastic nostrils ,  long philtrum ,  high and narrow palate and microstomia with downturned corners .
autosomal dominant form of sideroblastic anemia .
shprintzen - goldberg omphalocele syndrome is a very rare inherited malformation syndrome characterized by omphalocele ,  scoliosis ,  mild dysmorphic features  ( downslanted palpebral fissures ,  s - shaped eyelids and thin upper lip )  ,  laryngeal and pharyngeal hypoplasia and learning disabilities .
shprintzen - goldberg syndrome  ( sgs )  is a very rare genetic disorder characterized by craniosynostosis ,  craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities ,  marfanoid habitus ,  cardiac anomalies ,  neurological abnormalities ,  and intellectual disability .
septooptic dysplasia  ( sod )  is a clinically heterogeneous disorder characterized by the classical triad of optic nerve hypoplasia ,  pituitary hormone abnormalities and midline brain defects .
singleton - merten dysplasia is characterized by dental dysplasia ,  progressive calcification of the thoracic aorta with stenosis ,  osteoporosis and expansion of the marrow cavities in hand bones .
a developmental deformity in which the metaphysis of the femur moves proximally and anteriorly away from femur head  ( epiphysis )  at the upper growth plate .
small cell lung cancer  ( sclc )  is a highly aggressive malignant neoplasm ,  accounting for 10 - 15% of lung cancer cases ,  characterized byrapid growth ,  and early metastasis .
smith - magenis syndrome  ( sms )  is a complex genetic disorder characterized by variable intellectual deficit ,  sleep disturbance ,  craniofacial and skeletal anomalies ,  psychiatric disorders ,  and speech and motor delay .
sneddon's syndrome  ( ss )  is a rare non - inflammatory thrombotic vasculopathy characterized by the combination of cerebrovascular disease with livedo racemosa .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atl1 gene .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 4  ( spg4 )  is a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia with high intrafamilial clinical variability ,  characterized in most cases as a pure phenotype with an adult onset  ( mainly the 3rd to 5th decade of life ,  but that can present at any age )  of progressive gait impairment due to bilateral lower - limb spasticity and weakness as well as very mild proximal weakness and urinary urgency .
this syndrome is characterised by variable spastic paraplegia ,  bilateral sensorineural deafness ,  intellectual deficit and progressive nephropathy .
spastic paraplegia - neuropathy - poikiloderma syndrome is a complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by spastic paraplegia ,  demyelinating peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ,  poikiloderma  ( manifesting with loss of eyebrows and eyelashes in childhood in addition to delicate ,  smooth ,  and wasted skin )  and distal amyotrophy  ( presenting after puberty )  .
spastic paraplegia - precocious puberty syndrome is characterized by precocious puberty  ( due to leydig cell hyperplasia )  ,  progressive spastic paraplegia and intellectual deficit .
this syndrome is extremely rare and is characterized by delayed speech development ,  mild facial asymmetry ,  strabismus and transverse ear lobe creases .
any hereditary spherocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ank1 gene .
spheroid body myopathy is a rare form of myofibrillar myopathy characterized by predominantly proximal muscle weakness  ( that could be either non -  or slowly progressive )  ,  associated with spheroid body inclusions  ( composed of myofilamentous material within individual muscle fibers )  in skeletal muscle biopsy .
a congenital neural tube defect in which vertebrae are not fully formed .
a chronic adhesive arachnoiditis in the spinal arachnoid ,  with root and spinal cord symptoms similar to those caused by pressure from a tumor .
an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder characterized by juvenile onset ,  distal motor weakness without sensory impairment ,  and anterior horn cell degeneration .
spinal intradural arachnoid cysts are cerebrospinal fluid  - filled sacs that are located between the spinal cord and the arachnoid membrane  ( one of the three membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 6  ( sca6 )  is the most common subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii  ( adca type iii )  characterized by late - onset and slowly progressive gait ataxia and other cerebellar signs such as impaired muscle coordination and nystagmus .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 2  ( sca2 )  is a subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  characterized by truncal ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  slowed saccades and less commonly ophthalmoparesis and chorea .
splenogonadal fusion - limb defects - micrognatia syndrome is a rare dysostosis syndrome characterized by abnormal fusion of the spleen with the gonad  ( or more rarely with remnants of the mesonephros )  ,  limb abnormalities  ( consisting of amelia or severe reduction defects leading to upper and / or lower rudimentary limbs )  and orofacial abnormalities such as cleft palate ,  bifid uvula ,  microglossia and mandibular hypoplasia .
split - hand / foot malformation mapped to chromosome 7q21 .3
patterson - stevenson - fontaine syndrome is a very rare variant of acrofacial dysostosis characterized by mandibulofacial dysostosis and limb anomalies .
karsch - neugebauer syndrome is a rare syndrome characterized by split - hand and split - foot deformity and ocular abnormalities ,  mainly a congenital nystagmus .
czeizel - losonci syndrome  ( cls )  is an exceedingly rare ,  severe ,  congenital genetic malformation disorder characterized by split hand / split foot ,  hydronephrosis ,  and spina bifida .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia - hypotrichosis syndrome is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by congenital hypotrichosis associated with rhizomelic short stature  ( more pronounced in upper limbs than lower limbs )  ,  limited hip abduction and mild genu varum .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita  ( sedc )  is a chondrodysplasia characterized by disproportionate short stature ,  abnormal epiphyses and flattened vertebral bodies .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia  ( sed )  ,  macdermot type is characterized by short stature ,  femoral epiphyseal dysplasia ,  mild vertebral changes and sensorineural deafness .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  maroteaux type is a very rare type of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia described in fewer than 10 patients to date and characterized clinically by dysplastic epiphyses ,  short stature appearing in infancy ,  short neck ,  short and stubby hands and feet ,  scoliosis ,  genu valgum ,  abnormal pelvis ,  osteoporosis and osteoarthritis .
autosomal domiant spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda  ( autosomal dominant sedt )  is an inherited condition that affects bone growth .
a condition in which there is forward displacement of a vertebral bone over the on below it .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia congenita ,  strudwick type is characterized by disproportionate short stature from birth  ( with a very short trunk and shortened limbs )  and skeletal abnormalities  ( lordosis ,  scoliosis ,  flattened vertebrae ,  pectus carinatum ,  coxa vara ,  clubfoot ,  and abnormal epiphyses or metaphyses )  .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia ,  kozlowski type is characterized by short stature  ( short - trunk dwarfism )  ,  scoliosis ,  metaphyseal abnormalities in the femur  ( prominent in the femoral neck and trochanteric area )  ,  coxa vara and generalized platyspondyly .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia ,  schmidt type is characterized by short stature ,  myopia ,  small pelvis ,  progressive kypho - scoliosis ,  wrist deformity ,  severe genu valgum ,  short long bones ,  and severe metaphyseal dysplasia with moderate spinal changes and minimal changes in the hands and feet .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia ,  'corner fracture' type is a skeletal dysplasia associated with short stature ,  developmental coxa vara ,  progressive hip deformity ,  simulated 'corner fractures' of long tubular bones and vertebral body abnormalities  ( mostly oval vertebral bodies )  .
odontochondrodysplasia ,  also called goldblatt syndrome ,  is a very rare syndrome associating chondrodysplasia with dentinogenesis imperfecta .
stapes ankylosis with broad thumbs and toes is a very rare genetic bone disorder characterized by ankylosis of stapes ,  broad thumbs and halluces ,  conductive hearing loss and hyperopia .
sebocystomatosis is characterized by multiple  ( 100 to 2000 )  asymptomatic dermal cysts that usually occur on the sternal region ,  upper back ,  axillae and proximal parts of the extremities .
the syndrome steatocystoma multiplex and natal teeth is characterized by generalized multiple steatocystomas and natal teeth .
a disorder that manifests as multiple cysts on the ovaries .
holoprosencephaly - radial heart renal anomalies syndrome is characterised by holoprosencephaly ,  predominantly radial limb deficiency  ( absent thumbs ,  phocomelia )  ,  heart defects ,  kidney malformations and absence of gallbladder .
stickler syndrome type 3 is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by craniofacial dysmorphism  ( midface hypoplasia ,  depressed nasal bridge ,  small nose with upturned tip ,  cleft palate ,  pierre robin sequence )  ,  bilateral ,  pronounced sensorineural hearing loss ,  and skeletal / joint anomalies  ( including spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  arthralgia / arthropathy )  ,  in the absence of ocular abnormalities .
stiff - man syndrome  ( sms )  is a rare neurological disorder comprising fluctuating trunk and limb stiffness ,  painful muscle spasms ,  task - specific phobia ,  an exaggerated startle response ,  and ankylosing deformities such as fixed lumbar hyperlordosis .
stiff skin syndrome  ( sss )  is a rare syndrome characterized by hard ,  thick skin ,  usually on the entire body .
overhydrated hereditary stomatocytosis  ( ohst )  is a disorder of red cell membrane permeability to monovalent cations and is characterized clinically by hemolytic anemia .
hereditary cryohydrocytosis with normal stomatin is a rare ,  hereditary ,  hemolytic anemia due to a red cell membrane anomaly characterized by fatigue ,  mild anemia and pseudohyperkalemia due to a potassium leak from the red blood cells .
platelet storage pool deficiency refers to a group of conditions that are caused by problems with the platelet granules .
stormorken - sjaastad - langslet syndrome is characterized by thrombocytopathy ,  asplenia ,  miosis ,  muscle fatigue ,  migraine ,  dyslexia ,  and ichthyosis .
short stature - wormian bones - dextrocardia syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by wormian bones ,  dextrocardia and short stature due to a growth hormone deficiency .
sturge - weber syndrome  ( sws )  is a rare congenital neurocutaneous disorder characterized by facial capillary malformations and / or cerebral and ocular ipsilateral vascular malformations that result in variable degrees of ocular and neurological anomalies .
worster - drought syndrome  ( wds )  is a form of cerebral palsy characterized by congenital pseudobulbar  ( suprabulbar )  paresis manifesting as selective weakness of the lips ,  tongue and soft palate ,  dysphagia ,  dysphonia ,  drooling and jaw jerking .
supravalvar aortic stenosis  ( svas )  is characterized by the narrowing of the aorta lumen  ( close to its origin )  or other arteries  ( branch pulmonary arteries ,  coronary arteries )  .
distal symphalangism is a very rare bone disorder characterized by ankylosis of the distal interphalangeal joints of the hands and / or feet .
symphalangism with multiple anomalies of hands and feet is an exceedingly rare syndrome described in one family and characterized by proximal symphalangism and multiple hand and feet disorders  ( syndactyly ,  clinodactyly ,  hypoplasia of the thenar and hypothenar eminences ,  and a distinctive dermatoglyphic pattern )  .
proximal symphalangism is a very rare ,  genetic bone disorder characterized by ankylosis of the proximal interphalangeal joints ,  carpal and tarsal bone fusion ,  and conductive hearing loss in some patients .
syndactyly type 1  ( sd1 )  ,  also named zygodactyly in the past ,  is a distal limb malformation characterized by complete or partial webbing between the 3th and 4th fingers and / or the 2nd and 3rd toes .
any non - syndromic synpolydactyly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hoxd13 gene .
syndactyly type 3  ( sd3 )  is a rare congenital distal limb malformation characterized by complete and bilateral syndactyly between the 4th and 5th fingers .
syndactyly type 4  ( sd4 )  is a very rare congenital distal limb malformation characterized by complete bilateral syndactyly  ( involving all digits 1 to 5 )  .
syndactyly type 5  ( sd5 )  is a very rare congenital limb malformation characterized by postaxial syndactyly of hands and feet ,  associated with metacarpal and metatarsal fusion of fourth and fifth digits .
a synostosis characterized by the fusion of carpal and tarsal bones ,  which causes stiffness and immobility of the hands and the feet .
any multiple synostoses syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nog gene .
brachydactyly - elbow wrist dysplasia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic bone development disorder characterized by dysplasia of all the bony components of the elbow joint ,  abnormally shaped carpal bones ,  wrist joint radial deviation and brachydactyly .
tarsal - carpal coalition syndrome is characterised by fusion of the carpals ,  tarsals ,  and phalanges .
blau syndrome  ( bs )  is a rare systemic inflammatory disease characterized by early onset granulomatous arthritis ,  uveitis and skin rash .
an extra tooth ,  erupted or unerupted ,  resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs .
giant cell arteritis  ( gca )  is a large vessel vasculitis predominantly involving the arteries originating from the aortic arch and especially the extracranial branches of the carotid arteries .
an emergency condition caused by the twisting of the spermatic cord which contains the vessels that provide the blood supply to the testis and surrounding structures .
tetralogy of fallot is a congenital cardiac malformation that consists of an interventricular communication ,  also known as a ventricular septal defect ,  obstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract ,  override of the ventricular septum by the aortic root ,  and right ventricular hypertrophy .
tetramelic monodactyly is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation disorder characterized by the presence of a single digit on all four extremities .
thanatophoric dysplasia type 1  ( td1 )  is a form of td characterized by short ,  bowed femurs ,  micromelia ,  narrow thorax ,  and brachydactyly .
thanatophoric dysplasia characterized by a cloverleaf - like skull and straight femurs .
thoracolaryngopelvic dysplasia is a short - rib dysplasia characterized by thoracic dystrophy ,  laryngeal stenosis and a small pelvis .
an inherited blood coagulation disease characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance with macrothrombocytopenia ,  platelet anisocytosis ,  prolonged bleeding time but only mildly increased bleeding tendency that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the itga2b gene on chromosome 17q21 .31 or the itgb3 gene on chromosome 17q21 .32 .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the gfi1b gene ,  encoding zinc finger protein gfi - 1b .
an autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutation ( s )  in the ankrd26 gene ,  encoding ankrd26 protein .
paris - trousseau thrombocytopenia  ( tcpt )  is a contiguous gene syndrome characterized by mild bleeding tendency ,  variable thrombocytopenia  ( thc )  ,  dysmorphic facies ,  abnormal giant alpha - granules in platelets and dysmegakaryopoiesis .
an autoimmune disorder in which the number of circulating platelets is reduced due to their antibody - mediated destruction .
the formation of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  in the lumen of a vein .
a hemostatic disorder characterized by a poor anticoagulant response to activated protein c  ( apc )  .
thumb deformity - alopecia - pigmentation anomaly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation syndrome characterized by short stature ,  sparse scalp hair ,  hypoplastic ,  proximally - placed thumbs ,  and skin hyperpigmentation with areas of 'raindrop' depigmentation .
thumb stiffness - brachydactyly - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  mild dysmorphism ,  type a brachydactylia ,  signs of obesity and ankylosis of both thumbs .
a congenital anomaly characterized by immunodeficiency ,  abnormal facies ,  congenital heart disease ,  hypocalcemia ,  and increased susceptibility to infections .
familial thyroglossal duct cyst  ( tdc )  is a very rare inherited form of tdc characterized by a mass measuring 3 cm in diameter or less in the midline area of the neck .
any thyrotoxic periodic paralysis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacna1s gene .
physical and psychological dependence on nicotine .
hypodontia - nail dysplasia syndrome is a form of ectodermal dysplasia .
a congenital benign lesion that occurs in the distal sternocleidomastoid muscle of infants .
hellp syndrome is a life - threatening condition that can potentially complicate pregnancy .
oesophageal atresia  ( oa )  encompasses a group of congenital anomalies with an interruption in the continuity of the oesophagus ,  with or without persistent communication with the trachea .
tracheobronchopathia osteochondroplastica  ( to )  is an idiopathic and benign disease of the large airways characterized by submucosal osteocartilaginous nodules presenting in the trachea with or without the involvement of the major bronchi .
hereditary geniospasm is a movement disorder characterized by episodes of involuntary tremor of the chin and lower lip .
any essential tremor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the drd3 gene .
tricho - dento - osseous dysplasia  ( tdo )  belongs to the ectodermal dysplasias and is characterised by curly / kinky hair at birth ,  enamel hypoplasia with discolouration and molar taurodontism ,  increased overall bone mineral density  ( bmd )  and increased thickness of the cortical bones of the skull .
a rare ,  genetic ,  skin tumor disorder characterized by childhood - onset of multiple ,  benign ,  asymptomatic ,  white to flesh - colored papules predominently located on the face ,  ears ,  neck and trunk ,  not associated with systemic organ involvement ,  associated malignancies or flcn gene locus mutation .
an autosomal dominant malformation syndrome caused by mutations in trps1 characterized by distinctive craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities .
a trichorhinophalangeal syndrome caused by mutations in trps1 characterized by the presence of severe brachydactyly ,  due to short metacarpals ,  and severe short stature .
trichodysplasia - xeroderma syndrome is an extremely rare ,  syndromic hair shaft anomaly characterized by sparse ,  coarse ,  brittle ,  excessively dry and slow - growing scalp hair ,  sparse axillary and pubic hair ,  sparse or absent eyelashes and eyebrows and dry skin .
trigeminal neuralgia is a nerve disorder that causes a stabbing or electric - shock - like pain in parts of the face .
a painful disability in the hand affecting the finger or thumb .
any isolated trigonocephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fgfr1 gene .
say - field - coldwell syndrome is characterised by triphalangeal thumbs ,  brachydactyly ,  camptodactyly ,  recurrent dislocation of the patellas and relatively short stature .
triphalangeal thumbs - brachyectrodactyly syndrome is characterised by triphalangeal thumbs and brachydactyly of the hands .
down syndrome is a chromosomal abnormality caused by the presence of a third  ( partial or total )  copy of chromosome 21 and that is characterized by variable intellectual disability ,  muscular hypotonia ,  and joint laxity ,  often associated with a characteristic facial dysmorphism and various anomalies such as cardiac ,  gastrointestinal ,  or endocrine defects .
tritanopia is an extremely rare form of colour blindness characterised by a selective deficiency of blue vision .
humerus trochlea aplasia is an extremely rare familial bone deformity described only in japanese patients to date .
tuberous sclerosis mapped to chromosome 9q34  ( tsc1 gene )  .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 7q22 .
mesomelic dwarfism ,  reinhardt - pfeiffer type is characterized by disproportionate short stature from birth with dysplasia of the ulna and fibula .
ulna metaphyseal dysplasia syndrome is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by dysplasia of the distal ulnar metaphyses ,  as well as metacarpal / metatarsal dysplasia and metaphyseal changes resembling enchondromata .
this syndrome is an isolated upper limb mesomelic dysplasia .
uncombable hair syndrome  ( uhs )  ,  or pili trianguli et canaliculi ,  is a rare scalp hair shaft dysplasia .
tricho - retino - dento - digital syndrome is an autosomal dominant ectodermal dysplasia syndrome ,  characterized by uncombable hair syndrome ,  congenital hypotrichosis and dental abnormalities such as oligodontia or hyperdontia ,  and associated with early - onset cataract ,  retinal pigmentary dystrophy ,  and brachydactyly with brachymetacarpia .
upington disease is characterised by perthes - like pelvic anomalies  ( premature closure of the capital femoral epiphyses and widened femoral necks with flattened femoral heads )  ,  enchondromata and ecchondromata .
a malignant neoplasm involving the ureter
a cystic and dysplastic dilation of the distal ureter within the bladder that may extend into the bladder neck and urethra .
aquagenic urticaria is a rare condition in which urticaria  ( hives )  develop rapidly after the skin comes in contact with water ,  regardless of its temperature .
muckle - wells syndrome  ( mws )  is an intermediate form of cryopyrin - associated periodic syndrome  ( caps )  and is characterized by recurrent fever  ( with malaise and chills )  ,  recurrent urticaria - like skin rash ,  sensorineural deafness ,  general signs of inflammation  ( eye redness ,  headaches ,  arthralgia / myalgia )  and potentially life - threatening secondary amyloidosis  ( aa type )  .
double uterus ,  hemivagina and renal agenesis is a rare congenital urogenital anomaly characterized by the presence of double uterus  ( didelphys ,  bicornuate or septum - complete or partial )  ,  unilateral cervico - vaginal obstruction  ( obstructed hemivagina - communicant ,  not communicant or septate and unilateral cervical atresia )  and ipsilateral renal anomalies  ( renal agenesis and / or other urinary tract anomalies )  .
bifid uvula is a fissure type embryopathy affecting the uvula at the back of the soft palate .
a vascular disease characterized by the presence of enlarged and tortuous veins .
lymphocytic vasculitis is one of several skin conditions which are collectively referred to as cutaneous vasculitis .
retinal vasculopathy and cerebral leukodystrophy  ( rvcl )  is an inherited group of small vessel diseases comprised of cerebroretinal vasculopathy  ( crv )  ,  hereditary vascular retinopathy  ( hrv )  and hereditary endotheliopathy with retinopathy ,  nephropathy and stroke  ( herns )  ;  all exhibiting progressive visual impairment as well as variable cerebral dysfunction .
vacterl / vater is an association of congenital malformations typically characterized by the presence of at least three of the following: vertebral defects ,  anal atresia ,  cardiac defects ,  tracheo - esophageal fistula ,  renal anomalies ,  and limb abnormalities .
a chromosomal disease that has material basis in deletion polymorphisms at chromosome location 22q11 and is characterized by variable developmental problems and schizoid features .
this syndrome is characterized by cardiac arrhythmias  ( ventricular extrasystoles manifesting as bigeminy or multifocal tachycardia with syncopal episodes )  ,  perodactyly  ( hypoplasia and / or agenesis of the distal phalanges of the toes )  and pierre - robin sequence .
romano - ward syndrome  ( rws )  is an autosomal dominant variant of the long qt syndrome  ( lqts )  characterized by syncopal episodes and electrocardiographic abnormalities  ( qt prolongation ,  t - wave abnormalities and torsade de pointes  ( tdp )  ventricular tachycardia )  .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myh7 gene .
an instance of ventricular tachycardia that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
posterior fusion of lumbosacral vertebrae - blepharoptosis syndrome is characterized by congenital ptosis and posterior fusion of the lumbosacral vertebrae .
isolated congenital vertical talus  ( cvt )  is a rare pedal deformity recognizable at birth by a dislocation of the talonavicular joint ,  resulting in a characteristic radiographic near - vertical orientation of the talus .
idiopathic recurrent vertigo associated with positional nystagmus .
vibratory angioedema is a rare ,  inherited or sporadic ,  urticaria characterized by localized ,  typically long - lasting  ( hours to days )  ,  initially pruritic ,  painful ,  normocutaneous or erythematous ,  mucosal and / or cutaneous edema which is triggered by vibration .
autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets  ( adhr )  is a hereditary renal phosphate - wasting disorder characterized by hypophosphatemia ,  rickets and / or osteomalacia .
generalized well circumscribed patches of leukoderma that are generally distributed over symmetric body locations and is due to autoimmune destruction of melanocytes .
autosomal dominant vitreoretinochoroidopathy  ( advirc )  is a genetic vitreous - retinal disease characterized by ocular developmental anomalies such as microcornea ,  a shallow anterior chamber ,  glaucoma and cataract .
snowflake vitreoretinal degeneration  ( svd )  is characterised by the presence of small granular - like deposits resembling snowflakes in the retina ,  fibrillary vitreous degeneration and cataract .
autosomal dominant neovascular inflammatory vitreoretinopathy is a rare ,  genetic ,  vitreoretinal degeneration characterized by a slowly progressive vitreoretinopathy with onset during the second or third decade of life .
ptosis - vocal cord paralysis syndrome is a rare ,  hereditary disorder with ptosis characterized by the combination of congenital bilateral recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis and congenital bilateral ptosis .
a congenital abnormality in which the intestine is abnormally rotated  ( twisted )  .
von hippel - lindau disease  ( vhl )  is a familial cancer predisposition syndrome associated with a variety of malignant and benign neoplasms ,  most frequently retinal ,  cerebellar ,  and spinal hemangioblastoma ,  renal cell carcinoma  ( rcc )  ,  and pheochromocytoma .
type 1 von willebrand disease  ( type 1 vwd )  is a form of vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with a partial quantitative plasmatic deficiency of an otherwise structurally and functionally normal willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  .
waardenburg syndrome type 1  ( ws1 )  is a subtype of waardenburg syndrome  ( ws )  ,  disorder characterized by congenital deafness ,  minor defects in structures arising from neural crest resulting in pigmentation anomalies of eyes ,  hair ,  and skin ,  in combination with dystopia canthorum .
waardenburg syndrome type 2 caused by mutations in the mitf gene .
watson syndrome is believed to be a variant of neurofibromatosis type 1 .
acrofacialdysostosis ,  weyers type  ( wad )  is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with bone abnormalities characterized by onychodystrophy ;  anomalies of the lower jaw ,  oral vestibule and dentition ;  post - axialpolydactyly ;  moderately restricted growth with short limbs ;  and normal intelligence .
whim  ( warts ,  hypogammaglobulinemia ,  infections ,  and myelokathexis )  syndrome is a congenital autosomal dominant immune deficiency characterized by abnormal retention of mature neutrophils in the bone marrow  ( myelokathexis )  and occasional hypogammaglobulinemia ,  associated with an increased risk for bacterial infections and a susceptibility to human papillomavirus  ( hpv )  induced lesions  ( cutaneous warts ,  genital dysplasia and invasive mucosal carcinoma )  .
freeman - sheldon syndrome  ( fss )  is a very rare ,  multiple congenital contractures syndrome characterized by a microstomia with a whistling appearance of the mouth ,  distinctive facies ,  club foot and joint contractures .
any hereditary mucosal leukokeratosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt4 gene .
williams syndrome is a rare genetic multisystemic neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by a distinct facial appearance ,  cardiac anomalies  ( most frequently supravalvular aortic stenosis )  ,  cognitive and developmental abnormalities ,  and connective tissue abnormalities  ( such as joint laxity ) 
wagr syndrome  ( wilms tumor  -  aniridia  -  genitourinary anomalies  -  intellectual disability mental retardation )  is a rare genetic disorder characterized by an unusual complex of congenital developmental abnormalities with intellectual disability ,  and an increased risk of developing wilms tumor .
denys - drash syndrome  ( dds )  is a rare urogenital disorder characterized by the association of diffuse mesangial sclerosis  ( dms )  ,  male pseudohermaphroditism with a 46 , xy karyotype ,  and nephroblastoma .
wolf - hirschhorn syndrome  ( whs )  is a developmental disorder characterized by typical craniofacial features ,  prenatal and postnatal growth impairment ,  intellectual disability ,  severe delayed psychomotor development ,  seizures ,  and hypotonia .
a cardiac conduction disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of ventricular pre - excitation ,  which is a short pr interval and a long qrs interval with a delta wave .
woolly hair is a rare congenital abnormality of the structure of the scalp hair marked by extreme kinkiness of the hair .
wt limb - blood syndrome is characterised by haematological anomalies  ( fanconi anaemia ,  leukaemia and lymphoma )  often appearing during childhood .
abetalipoproteinemia /  homozygous familial hypobetalipoproteinemia  ( abl / hofhbl )  is a severe form of familial hypobetalipoproteinemia characterized by permanently low levels  ( below the 5th percentile )  of apolipoprotein b and ldl cholesterol ,  and by growth delay ,  malabsorption ,  hepatomegaly ,  and neurological and neuromuscular manifestations .
ablepharon macrostomia syndrome is an extremely rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome characterized by the association of ablepharon ,  macrostomia ,  abnormal external ears ,  syndactyly of the hands and feet ,  skin findings  ( such as dry and coarse skin or redundant folds of skin )  ,  absent or sparse hair ,  genital malformations and developmental delay  ( in 2 / 3 of cases )  .
pseudoprogeria is characterised by intellectual deficit associated with progressive spastic quadriplegia ,  microcephaly ,  glaucoma ,  absence of the eyebrows and eyelashes ,  and a malformation of the nose .
chorea - acanthocytosis  ( chac )  is a form of neuroacanthocytosis and is characterized clinically by a huntington disease - like phenotype with progressive neurological symptoms including movement disorders ,  psychiatric manifestations and cognitive disturbances .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of acanthosis nigricans ,  insulin resistance ,  severe muscle cramps and acral hypertrophy .
a finding indicating the lack of adequate relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter resulting in difficulty swallowing food .
achalasia - microcephaly is an extremely rare genetic syndrome ,  reported in a few families to date ,  characterized by the association of microcephaly ,  intellectual deficit and achalasia  ( with symptoms of coughing ,  dysphagia ,  vomiting ,  failure to thrive and aspiration appearing in infancy / early - childhood )  .
acheiropodia is an extremely rare developmental disorder characterized by bilateral ,  congenital and complete amputation of the distal extremities  ( amputation of distal epiphysis of the humerus ,  distal portion of the tibial diaphysis ,  aplasia of the radius ,  ulna ,  fibula )  and aplasia of hands and feet  ( aplasia of carpal ,  metacarpal ,  tarsal ,  metatarsal and phalangeal bones )  .
achondrogenesis type 1a  ( acg1a )  ,  a form of achondrogenesis ,  is a very rare ,  lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by dwarfism with extremely short limbs ,  narrow chest ,  short ribs that are easily fractured ,  soft skull bones and distinctive histological features of the cartilage .
achondrogenesis type 2  ( acg2 )  ,  a form of achondrogenesis ,  is a very rare and lethal skeletal dysplasia and part of the spectrum of type 2 collagen - related bone disorders ,  characterizedby severe micromelia ,  short neck with large head ,  small thorax ,  protuberant abdomen ,  underdeveloped lungs ,  distinctive facial features such as a prominent forehead ,  a small chin ,  a cleft palate  ( in some )  and distinctive histological features of the cartilage .
acromesomelic dysplasia ,  grebe type is an autosomal recessively inherited form of acromesomelic dysplasia characterized by severe dwarfism at birth ,  abnormalities confined to limbs ,  severe shortening and deformity of long bones ,  fusion or absence of carpal and tarsal bones ,  ball shaped fingers and ,  occasionally ,  polydactyly and absent joints .
short - limb skeletal dysplasia with severe combined immunodeficiency is an extremely rare type of scid characterized by the classical signs of t - b -  scid  ( severe and recurrent infections ,  diarrhea ,  failure to thrive ,  absence of t and b lymphocytes )  ,  associated with skeletal anomalies like short stature ,  bowing of the long bones and metaphyseal abnormalities of variable degree of severity .
ackerman syndrome is characterized by pyramidal molar roots and taurodontism ,  associated with variable anomalies .
acro - renal - mandibular syndrome is a very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by limb deficiencies and renal anomalies that include split hand - split foot malformation ,  renal agenesis ,  polycystic kidneys ,  uterine anomalies and severe mandibular hypoplasia .
acrocallosal syndrome  ( acs )  is a polymalformative syndrome characterized by agenesis of corpus callosum  ( cc )  ,  distal anomalies of limbs ,  minor craniofacial anomalies and intellectual deficit .
acrocephalopolydactyly ,  also known as elejalde syndrome ,  is an extremely rare lethal autosomal recessive disorder characterized by massive birth weight ,  swollen globular body ,  generalized edema ,  short limbs ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  thick skin ,  facial dysmorphism  ( slanted palpebral fissures ,  hypertelorism ,  epicanthic folds ,  dysplastic ears )  ,  excessive connective tissue ,  renal dysplasia ,  and in some patients ,  organomegaly ,  craniosynostosis with acrocephaly ,  omphalocele ,  cleft palate ,  and cryptorchidism .
any carpenter syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rab23 gene .
goodman syndrome is an extremely rare genetic disorder characterized by marked malformations of the head and face  ( essentially acrocephaly )  ,  abnormalities of the hands and feet  ( polydactyly ,  syndactyly ,  clinodactyly ,  camptodactyly ,  ulnar deviation )  ,  and congenital heart disease .
acrocraniofacial dysostosis is a very rare form of acrofacial dyosotosis ,  reported in two sisters to date ,  characterized by short stature ,  acrocephaly ,  ocular hypertelorism ,  ptosis of eyelids ,  ocular proptosis ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  high nasal bridge ,  anteverted nostrils ,  short philtrum ,  cleft palate ,  micrognathia ,  abnormal external ears ,  preauricular pits ,  mixed hearing loss ,  bulbous digits ,  metatarsus varus ,  pectus excavatum and various radiological abnormalities .
acrodermatitis enteropathica  ( ae )  is a rare inherited inborn error of metabolism resulting in a severe zinc deficiency and characterized by acral dermatitis ,  alopecia ,  diarrhea and growth failure .
acrofacial dysostosis rodriguez type is a multiple malformative syndrome in which mandibulofacial dysostosis and severe limb reduction defects are associated with complex malformations of different organs and systems especially the cns ,  urogenital tract ,  heart ,  and lungs .
acro - fronto - facio - nasal dysostosis is a congenital malformation syndrome characterized by the association of facial and skeletal anomalies with severe intellectual deficit and occasional genitourinary anomalies .
a congenital skin condition characterized by premature aging ,  more especially in the form of unusually fragile ,  thin skin on the hands and feet .
acromesomelic dysplasia ,  hunter - thomson type is an autosomal recessively inherited form of acromesomelic dysplasia characterized by severe dwarfism  ( adult height approximately 120 cm )  with abnormalities limited to the limbs  ( affecting the lower limbs more than upper limbs ,  with middle and distal segments being the most affected )  ,  severe shortening ,  absence or fusion of tubular bones of hands and feet and large joint dislocations .
morvan syndrome is a rare ,  life - threatening ,  acquired neurologic disease characterized by neuromyotonia ,  dysautonomia and encephalopathy with severe insomnia .
autosomal recessive form of acrorenal syndrome .
a hypopituitarrium that is characterized by a decreased or absent production of adrenocorticotropic hormone by the pituitary gland .
medium chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase  ( mcad )  deficiency  ( mcadd )  is an inborn error of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation characterized by a rapidly progressive metabolic crisis ,  often presenting as hypoketotic hypoglycemia ,  lethargy ,  vomiting ,  seizures and coma ,  which can be fatal in the absence of emergency medical intervention .
short - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase  ( scad )  deficiency is a very rare inborn error of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation characterized by variable manifestations ranging from asymptomatic individuals  ( in most cases )  to those with failure to thrive ,  hypotonia ,  seizures ,  developmental delay and progressive myopathy .
very long - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase  ( vlcad )  deficiency  ( vlcadd )  is an inherited disorder of mitochondrial long - chain fatty acid oxidation with a variable presentation including: cardiomyopathy ,  hypoketotic hypoglycemia ,  liver disease ,  exercise intolerance and rhabdomyolysis .
adducted thumbs - arthrogryposis ,  christian type is a type of arthrogryposis characterized by congenital cleft palate ,  microcephaly ,  craniostenosis and arthrogryposis  ( limitation of extension of elbows ,  flexed adducted thumbs ,  camptodactyly and clubfeet )  .
congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia  ( clah )  is one of the most severe forms of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  characterized by severe adrenal insufficiency and sex reversal in males .
congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 3 - beta - hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency is a very rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  encompassing salt - wasting and non - salt wasting forms with a wide variety of symptoms ,  including glucocorticoid deficiency and male undervirilization manifesting as a micropenis to severe perineoscrotal hypospadias .
classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21 - hydroxylase deficiency  ( classic 21 - ohd cah )  is the most common form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  ,  characterized by simple virilizing or salt wasting forms that can manifest with genital ambiguity in females and with adrenal insufficiency  ( in both sexes )  ,  and that presents with dehydration ,  hypoglycemia in the neonatal period  ( that can be lethal if untreated )  ,  and hyperandrogenia .
congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11 beta - hydroxylase  ( cyp11b1 )  deficiency is a rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  characterized by glucocorticoid deficiency ,  hyperandrogenism ,  hypertension and virilization in females .
congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 17 - alpha - hydroxylase deficiency is a very rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  characterized by glucocorticoid deficiency ,  hypergonadotrophic hypogonadism and severe hypokalemic hypertension .
familial glucocorticoid deficiency  ( fgd )  is a group of primary adrenal insufficiencies characterized clinically by neonatal hyperpigmentation ,  hypoglycemia ,  failure to thrive ,  and recurrent infections ,  and biochemically by glucocorticoid deficiency without mineralocorticoid deficiency .
an instance of adrenal cortex carcinoma that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
familial afibrinogenemia is a coagulation disorder characterized by bleeding symptoms due to a complete absence of circulating fibrinogen .
a complete lack of ganglia in the intestine .
agnathia - holoprosencephaly - situs inversus syndrome is an extremely rare and fatal association syndrome ,  characterized by absence of the mandible ,  cerebral malformations with facial anomalies related to a defect in cleavage in the embryonic brain  ( e .g .
pagod syndrome is a severe developmental syndrome characterized by multiple congenital anomalies including cardiovascular defects ,  pulmonary hypoplasia ,  diaphragmatic defects and genital anomalies .
autosomal dominant form of severe congenital neutropenia .
stimmler syndrome is characterised by the association of microcephaly ,  low birth weight and severe intellectual deficit with dwarfism ,  small teeth and diabetes mellitus .
alar cartilages hypoplasia -  coloboma -  telecanthus is a very rare dysmorphic disorder characterized by hypoplasia and coloboma of the alar cartilages and telecanthus described in 2 sisters .
oculocutaneous albinism type 1a  ( oca1a )  is the most severe form of oca ,  where no melanin is produced ,  and is characterized by white hair and skin ,  blue ,  fully translucent irises ,  nystagmus and misrouting of the optic nerves .
oculocutaneous albinism type 2  ( oca2 )  is a type of oca and the most common form of oca seen in the african population ,  characterized by variable hypopigmentation of the skin and hair ,  numerous characteristic ocular changes and misrouting of the optic nerves at the chiasm .
type 3 oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca3 )  is a form of oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca )  characterized by rufous or brown albinism and occurring mainly in the african population .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hps1 gene .
pseudohypoparathyroidism type 2  ( php2 )  is a type of pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php )  characterized by resistance to parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  ,  which manifests with hypocalcemia ,  hyperphosphatemia and elevated pth levels ,  absence of albright's hereditary osteodystrophy  ( aho )  ,  and normal expression of the gs protein with a normal urinary camp response .
microcephaly  -  albinism  -  digital anomalies syndrome is a very rare syndrome associating microcephaly ,  micrognathia ,  oculocutaneous albinism ,  hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of fingers and agenesia of the distal end of the right big toe .
alexander disease  ( axd )  is a rare neurodegenerative disorder of the astrocytes comprised of two clinical forms: axd type i and type ii manifesting with various degrees of macrocephaly ,  spasticity ,  ataxia and seizures and leading to psychomotor regression and death .
alkaptonuria is a metabolic disease characterized by the accumulation of homogentisic acid  ( hga )  and its oxidized product ,  benzoquinone acetic acid  ( bqa )  ,  in various tissues  ( e .g .
alopecia - contractures - dwarfism - intellectual disability syndrome  ( acd syndrome )  is a form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by a short stature of prenatal onset ,  alopecia ,  ichthyosis ,  photophobia ,  ectrodactyly ,  seizures ,  scoliosis ,  multiple contractures ,  fusions of various bones  ( particularly elbows ,  carpals ,  metacarpals ,  and spine )  ,  intellectual disability ,  and facial dysmorphism  ( microdolichocephaly ,  madarosis ,  large ears and long nose )  .
alopecia - intellectual deficit syndrome is an extremely rare syndrome described in less than 20 families to date and characterized by total or partial alopecia associated with intellectual deficit .
alopecia universalis is the most severe form of alopecia areata ,  an inflammatory disease of the hair follicle ,  which is characterized by a complete loss of hair of the scalp and all the hair - bearing areas of the body .
alpers huttenlocher syndrome  ( ahs )  is a cerebrohepatopathy and a rare and severe form of mitochondrial dna  ( mtdna )  depletion syndrome characterized by the triad of progressive developmental regression ,  intractable seizures ,  and hepatic failure .
oxoglutaric aciduria is a very rare tricarboxylic acid cycle disorder ,  resulting from a deficiency in alpha - ketoglutarate dehydrogenase  ( one of the three subunits of the alpha - ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex )  ,  that most often presents in the neonatal period with hypotonia ,  severe encephalopathy ,  extrapyramidal signs ,  pyramidal tract dysfunction and seizures and that frequently results in death in early childhood .
beta - ketothiolase  ( t2 )  deficiency is a rare organic aciduria affecting ketone body metabolism and the catabolism of isoleucine and characterized by intermittent ketoacidotic episodes associated with vomiting ,  dyspnea ,  tachypnoea ,  hypotonia ,  lethargy and coma ,  with an onset during infancy or toddlerhood and usually ceasing by adolescence .
autosomal recessive alport syndrome isa genetic condition characterized by kidney disease ,  hearing loss ,  and eye abnormalities .
alstrc6m syndrome  ( as )  is a multisystemic disorder characterized by cone - rod dystrophy ,  hearing loss ,  obesity ,  insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia ,  type 2 diabetes mellitus ,  dilated cardiomyopathy  ( dcm )  ,  and progressive hepatic and renal dysfunction .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gucy2d gene .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpe65 gene .
amaurosis hypertrichosis is characterised by severe retinal dystrophy marked by visual impairment and profound photophobia without night blindness .
a condition associated with mutation ( s )  in the cln3 gene ,  encoding battenin .
any neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cln6 gene .
a condition associated with mutation ( s )  in the tpp1 gene ,  encoding tripeptidyl - peptidase -  1 .
amelogenesis imperfecta - nephrocalcinosis ,  also called enamel - renal syndrome ,  is an extremely rare syndrome which is characterized by hypoplastic amelogenesis imperfecta  ( hypoplastic dental enamel )  and nephrocalcinosis  ( precipitation of calcium salts in renal tissue )  .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the klk4 gene .
gelatinous drop - like corneal dystrophy  ( gdcd )  is a form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by multiple prominent milky - white gelatinous nodules beneath the corneal epithelium ,  and marked visual impairment .
a rare ,  non - progressive congenital disorder characterized by multiple joint contractures which are present at birth .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the als2 gene .
a juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that is slowly progressive with concomitantly progressive dementia .
tangier disease  ( td )  is a rare lipoprotein metabolism disorder characterized biochemically by an almost complete absence of plasma high - density lipoproteins  ( hdl )  ,  and clinically by liver ,  spleen ,  lymph node and tonsil enlargement along with peripheral neuropathy in children and adolescents ,  and ,  occasionally ,  cardiovascular disease in adults .
congenital hypochromic microcytic anemia with progressive liver iron overload paradoxically associated with normal to moderately elevated serum ferritin levels has been described in three unrelated patients .
irida  ( iron - refractory iron deficiency anemia )  syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive iron metabolism disorder characterized by iron deficiency anemia  ( hypochromic ,  microcytic )  that is often unresponsive to oral iron intake and partially responsive to parenteral iron treatment .
anencephaly is a neural tube defect .
familial angiolipomatosis is a rare ,  genetic ,  subcutaneous tissue disorder characterized by the presence of benign ,  usually multiple ,  subcutaneous tumors composed of adipose tissue and blood vessels ,  typically manifesting as yellow ,  firm ,  circumscribed ,  1 - 4 cm in diameter tumors located in the arms ,  legs and trunk ,  with deep extension of the lesions between muscles ,  tendons and joint capsules  ( without infiltration of these structures )  ,  in several members of a single family .
aniridia - cerebellar ataxia - intellectual disability syndrome ,  also known as gillespie syndrome ,  is a rare ,  congenital ,  neurological disorder characterized by the association of partial bilateral aniridia with non - progressive cerebellar ataxia ,  and intellectual disability .
aniridia  -  renal agenesis  -  psychomotor retardation is an extremely rare syndrome reported in two siblings of non consanguineous parents that is characterized by the association of ocular abnormalities  ( partial aniridia ,  congenital glaucoma ,  telecanthus )  with frontal bossing ,  hypertelorism ,  unilateral renal agenesis and mild psychomotor delay .
anodontia is an extreme developmental dental anomaly characterized by the complete absence of all teeth .
any isolated congenital anonychia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rspo4 gene .
anophthalmia - esophageal atresia syndrome belongs to the group of syndromic microphthalmias and is characterized by the association of uni -  or bilateral anophthalmia or microphthalmia ,  and esophageal atresia with or without trachoesophageal fistula .
microphthalmia with limb anomalies ,  also known as ophthalmo - acromelic syndrome  ( oas )  ,  is a rare developmental disorder characterized by bilateral microphthalmia or anophthalmia ,  synostosis ,  syndactyly ,  oligodactyly and / or polydactyly .
antley - bixler syndrome is a very rare disorder characterised by craniosynostosis with midface hypoplasia ,  radiohumeral synostosis ,  femoral bowing and joint contractures .
aphalangy - hemivertebrae - urogenital - intestinal dysgenesis is an extremely rare congenital limb malformation syndrome ,  described in only 3 patients to date ,  and characterized by the association of hypoplasia or aplasia of the hand and foot phalanges ,  hemivertebrae and various urogenital and / or intestinal abnormalities  ( i .e .
aplasia cutis congenita  -  intestinal lymphangiectasia is an extremely rare association syndrome ,  described in only two brothers to date  ( one of which died at 2 months of age )  ,  characterized by aplasia cutis congenita of the vertex and generalized edema  ( as well as hypoproteinemia and lymphopenia )  due to intestinal lymphangiectasia .
digital extensor muscle aplasia - polyneuropathy is a rare ,  hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by flexion deformities of the thumb and fingers ,  sensory deficit in the hand and polyneuropathic electrophysiologic findings in the limbs .
xk aprosencephaly is a very rare syndromic type of cerebral malformation characterized by aprosencephaly  ( absence of telencephalon and diencephalon )  ,  oculo - facial anomalies  ( i .e .
aredyld stands for acral - renal - ectodermal - dysplasia - lipoatrophic - diabetes .this syndrome has been described in three individuals ,  one of whom was born to consanguineous parents .
intracranial or spinal cavities containing a cerebrospinal - like fluid ,  the wall of which is composed of arachnoidal cells .
arginase deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive amino acid metabolism disorder characterized clinically by variable degrees of hyperammonemia ,  developing from about 3 years of age ,  and leading to progressive loss of developmental milestones and spasticity in the absence of treatment .
argininosuccinic aciduria  ( asa )  is a disorder of urea cycle metabolism most commonly characterized by either a severe ,  neonatal - onset form that manifests with hyperammonemia accompanied with vomiting ,  hypothermia ,  lethargy and poor feeding in the first few days of life ,  or late - onset forms  ( any age outside the newborn period )  that manifest with stress or infection - induced episodic hyperammonemia or ,  in some ,  behavioral abnormalities and / or learning disabilities .
arnold - chiari malformation type ii is a rare ,  central nervous system malformation characterized by caudal displacement of the cerebellum ,  pons ,  medulla and fourth ventricle through the foramen magnum into the spinal canal ,  and is typically associated with myelomeningocele .
an autosomal recessive genetic disorder caused by mutations in the enpp1 gene ,  encoding ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase / phosphodiesterase family member 1 .
arterial tortuosity syndrome  ( ats )  is a rare connective tissue disorder characterized by tortuosity and elongation of the large and medium - sized arteries and a propensity towards aneurysm formation ,  vascular dissection ,  and stenosis of the pulmonary arteries .
any arthrogryposis - renal dysfunction - cholestasis syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vps33b gene .
neurogenic arthrogryposis multiplex congenita is a form of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita characterized by congenital immobility of the limbs with fixation of multiple joints and muscle wasting .
fetal akinesia deformation sequence  ( fads )  is a condition characterized by decreased fetal movement  ( fetal akinesia )  as well as intra - uterine growth restriction  ( iugr )  ,  multiple joint contractures  ( arthrogryposis )  ,  facial anomalies ,  underdevelopment of the lungs  ( pulmonary hypoplasia )  and other developmental abnormalities .
arthrogryposis multiplex congenita - whistling face syndrome is an extremely rare type of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita characterized by the combination of multiple joint contractures with movement limitation ,  microstomia with a whistling appearance of the mouth that may cause feeding ,  swallowing ,  and speech difficulties ,  a distinctive expressionless facies ,  severe developmental delay ,  central and autonomous nervous system dysfunction  ( excessive salivation ,  temperature instability ,  myoclonic epileptic fits ,  bradycardia )  ,  occasionally pierre - robin sequence ,  and lethality generally occurring during the first months of life .
arthrogryposis - hyperkeratosis syndrome ,  lethal form is an arthrogryposis syndrome ,  described in two siblings to date ,  characterized by the association of multiple congenital joint contractures  ( of the large joints ,  fingers and toes )  and hyperkeratosis  ( i .e .
progressive pseudorheumatoid arthropathy  ( dysplasia )  of childhood  ( ppac ;  ppd )  presents as spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia  ( sed )  tarda with progressive arthropathy and is described as a specific autosomal recessive subtype of sed .
camptodactyly - arthropathy - coxa - vara - pericarditis  ( cacp )  syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  rheumatologic disease characterized by congenital or early - onset camptodactyly and symmetrical ,  polyarticular ,  non - inflammatory ,  large joint arthropathy with synovial hyperplasia ,  as well as progressive coxa vara deformity and ,  occasionally ,  non - inflammatory pericarditis .
chylous ascites is a rare form of ascites caused by accumulation of lymph in the peritoneal cavity ,  usually due to intra - abdominal malignancy ,  liver cirrhosis or abdominal surgery complications ,  and present with painless but progressive abdominal distension ,  dyspnea and weight gain .
aspartylglycosaminuria  ( agu )  is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease belonging to the oligosaccharidosis group  ( also called glycoproteinosis )  .
an asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy associated with variation in the region 15q13 .
a visceral heterotaxy characterized by complete atrioventricular septal defect with a common atrium and univentricular av connection ,  total anomalous pulmonary drainage ,  and transposition or malposition of the great arteries and may be associated with bilateral trilobed lungs ,  midline liver ,  asplenia and situs inversus affecting other organs that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the gdf1 gene on chromosome 19p12 .
any renal - hepatic - pancreatic dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nphp3 gene .
this syndrome is characterised by progressive ataxia beginning during childhood ,  deafness and intellectual deficit .
ataxia - telangiectasia is the association of severe combined immunodeficiency  ( affecting mainly the humoral immune response )  with progressive cerebellar ataxia .
ataxia with oculomotor apraxia type 1  ( aoa1 )  is a rare autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia  ( arca )  ,  characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia associated with oculomotor apraxia ,  severe neuropathy ,  and hypoalbuminemia .
atherosclerosis - deafness - diabetes - epilepsy - nephropathy syndrome is characterised by sensorineural deafness ,  diabetes mellitus ,  progressive neurological deterioration with photomyoclonic epilepsy ,  and progressive nephropathy .
congenital atransferrinemia is a very rare hematologic disease caused by a transferrin  ( tf )  deficiency and characterized by microcytic ,  hypochromic anemia  ( manifesting with pallor ,  fatigue and growth retardation )  and iron overload ,  and that can be fatal if left untreated .
atrichia with papular lesions is a rare inherited form of alopecia characterized by irreversible hair loss during the neonatal period on all hear - bearing areas of the body ,  later associated with the development of papular lesions all over the body and preferentially on the face and extensor surfaces of the extremities .
impaired conduction of cardiac impulse that can occur anywhere along the conduction pathway ,  such as between the sinoatrial node and the right atrium  ( sa block )  or between atria and ventricles  ( av block )  .
cooper - wang - jabs syndrome is a multiple malformation syndrome characterized by atresia of the auditory canal together with ventricular septal defect ,  anteriorly displaced anus ,  mild clubfoot ,  and intellectual deficit .
a rare disease due to a severely impaired central autonomic control of breathing and dysfunction of the autonomous nervous system .
barber say syndrome  ( bss )  is a rare ectodermal dysplasia with neonatal onset characterized by congenital generalized hypertrichosis ,  atrophic skin ,  ectropion and microstomia .
a bardet - biedl syndrome that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the bbs1 gene on chromosome 11q13 .
immunodeficiency by defective expression of hla class 2 is a rare primary genetic immunodeficiency disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of human leukocyte antigen class 2 expression resulting in severe defect in both cellular and humoral immune response to antigens .
beemer - ertbruggen syndrome is a lethal malformation syndrome reported in 2 brothers of first - cousin parents that is characterized by hydrocephalus ,  cardiac malformation ,  dense bones ,  and unusual facies with down - slanting palpebral fissures ,  bulbous nose ,  broad nasal bridge ,  micrognathia and a long upper lip .
behr syndrome is a disorder characterized by early - onset optic atrophy along with neurological features ,  including ataxia ,  spasticity ,  and intellectual disability .
any 3 - methylcrotonyl - coa carboxylase deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mccc1 gene .
any 3 - methylcrotonyl - coa carboxylase deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mccc2 gene .
 ( 2p21 )  genes .
biemond syndrome type 2  ( bs2 )  is a rare genetic neurological and developmental disorder reported in a very small number of patients with a poorly defined phenotype which includes iris coloboma ,  short stature ,  obesity ,  hypogonadism ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  and intellectual disability .
bietti's crystalline dystrophy  ( bcd )  is a rare progressive autosomal recessive tapetoretinal degeneration disease ,  occurring in the third decade of life ,  characterized by small sparkling crystalline deposits in the posterior retina and corneal limbus in addition to sclerosis of the choroidal vessels and manifesting as nightblindness ,  decreased vision ,  paracentral scotoma ,  and ,  in the end stages of the disease ,  legal blindness .
autosomal recessive form of bifid nose .
biliary atresia is a rare ,  progressive obliterative cholangiopathy of the extrahepatic bile ducts ,  occuring in the embryonic /  perinatal period ,  leading to severe and persistent jaundice and acholic stool with an unfavorable course in the absence of treatment .
any seckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atr gene .
microcephalic primordial dwarfism ,  montreal type is a rare ,  genetic multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by severe short stature and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  narrow face with flat cheeks ,  ptosis ,  prominent nose with a convex ridge ,  low - set ears with small or absent lobes ,  high - arched / cleft palate ,  micrognathia )  ,  associated with premature graying and loss of scalp hair ,  redundant ,  dry and wrinkled skin of the palms ,  premature senility and varying degrees of intellectual disability .
a microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the rnu4atac gene ,  encoding a small nuclear rna  ( snrna )  component of the u12 - dependent  ( minor )  spliceosome ,  on chromosome 2q14 .2 .
'microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type ii  ( mopdii )  is a form of microcephalic primordial dwarfism  ( mpd )  characterized by severe pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  with marked microcephaly in proportion to body size ,  skeletal dysplasia ,  abnormal dentition ,  insulin resistance ,  and increased risk for cerebrovascular disease .'
bangstad syndrome is a rare endocrine disease characterized by the association of primordial birdheaded nanism ,  progressive ataxia ,  goiter ,  primary gonadal insufficiency and insulin resistant diabetes mellitus .
blepharophimosis - ptosis - esotropia - syndactyly - short stature syndrome is characterised by the association of blepharophimosis and ptosis ,  v - esotropia ,  and weakness of extraocular and frontal muscles with syndactyly of the toes ,  short stature ,  prognathism ,  and hypertrophy and fusion of the eyebrows .
bloom syndrome  ( bsyn )  is a rare chromosomal breakage syndrome characterized by a marked genetic instability associated with pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  facial sun - sensitive telangiectatic erythema ,  increased susceptibility to infections ,  and predisposition to cancer .
blue diaper syndrome is a hereditary metabolic disorder characterised by hypercalcaemia with nephrocalcinosis and indicanuria .
bone dysplasia lethal holmgren type  ( bdlh )  is a lethal bone dysplasia characterized at birth by low birth weight ,  a rhizomelic dwarfism ,  bent femora and short chest producing asphyxia .
bowen - conradi syndrome  ( bcs )  is a lethal autosomal recessive ribosomal biogenesis disorder characterized by severe prenatal and postnatal growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  a distinctive facial appearance ,  extreme psychomotor delay ,  hip and knee contractures and rockerbottom feet .
kyphomelic dysplasia is a prenatal skeletal disease that causes dwarfism characterized bythe following: a disproportionately short stature with a short narrow chest , shortening and bending  ( bowing ) of the limbs ,  flared irregular metaphyses of the bones ,  and characteristicfacial features .bone changes are said to improve with age .kyphomelic dysplasia is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern .
long bone bowing is a congenital condition described by the presence of symmetric or asymmetric angular deformity and shortening of the long bones ,  particularly the femurs ,  tibiae and ulnae .
oculoosteocutaneous syndrome is characterised by congenital anodontia ,  a small maxilla ,  short stature with shortened metacarpals and metatarsals ,  sparse hair ,  albinoidism and multiple ocular anomalies .
branchio - skeleto - genital  ( bsg )  syndrome is an extremely rare multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome ,  described in three boys from one family ,  and characterized by intellectual disability ,  hypertelorism ,  broad and flat nasal bridge ,  maxillary hypoplasia ,  mandibular prognathism ,  bifid uvula or partial cleft palate ,  multiple dental cysts ,  schmorl nodes ,  fused cervical spinous processes ,  pectus excavatum ,  and penoscrotal hypospadias .
buerger disease ,  also known as thromboangiitis obliterans  ( tao )  ,  is a rare inflammatory non - necrotizing vascular disease affecting the small -  and medium - sized arteries and veins of the upper and lower extremities characterized by endarteritis and vaso - occlusion due to occlusive thrombus development .
progressive bulbar palsy involves the brain stem .
riboflavin transporter deficiency  ( rtd )  is a progressive motor neuron disorder characterized by respiratory insufficiency ,  sensorineural deafness and progressive ponto - bulbar palsy .
pfic1 ,  a type of progressive familial intrahepathic cholestasis  ( pfic )  ,  is an infantile hereditary disorder in bile formation that is hepatocellular in origin and associated with extrahepatic features .
c syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomaly / intellectual disability syndrome characterized by trigonocephaly and metopic suture synostosis ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  short neck ,  skeletal anomalies ,  and variable intellectual disability .
cataract - hypertrichosis - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by congenital cataract ,  generalized hypertrichosis and intellectual deficit .
hereditary arterial and articular multiple calcification syndrome is a very rare genetic vascular disease of autosomal recessive inheritance ,  described in less than 20 patients to date ,  characterized by adult - onset  ( as early as the second decade of life )  isolated calcification of the arteries of the lower extremities  ( including the iliac ,  femoral ,  and tibial arteries )  as well as the capsule joints of the fingers ,  wrists ,  ankles and feet ,  and that usually manifests with mild paresthesias of the lower extremities ,  intense joint pain and swelling ,  and early onset arthritis of affected joints .
campomelia ,  cumming type ,  is characterized by the association of limb defects and multivisceral anomalies .
familial tumoral calcinosis  ( ftc )  refers to a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by the occurrence of cutaneous and subcutaneous calcified masses ,  usually adjacent to large joints ,  such as hips ,  shoulders and elbows .
camptodactyly syndrome ,  guadalajara type 1 is a rare syndrome consisting of growth retardation ,  facial dysmorphism ,  camptodactyly and skeletal anomalies .
camptodactyly syndrome ,  guadalajara type 2 is an extremely rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by distinctive intrauterine growth retardation ,  skeletal dysplasia with multiple malformations including camptodactyly of all fingers ,  bilateral hallux valgus ,  short second ,  fourth and fifth toes ,  hypoplastic patella ,  microcephaly ,  low - set ears ,  short neck ,  cuboid - shaped vertebral bodies ,  pectus excavatum ,  hip dislocation ,  and hypoplastic pubic region and genitalia .
camptodactyly  -  fibrous tissue hyperplasia  -  skeletal dysplasia syndrome is an extremely rare chondrodysplastic malformation syndrome that is characterized by the combination of arachnodactyly ,  becoming evident at around the age of 10 ,  camptodactyly  ( hammertoes )  and scoliosis .
tel hashomer camptodactyly syndrome is a rare syndrome characterized by camptodactyly ,  muscle hypoplasia and weakness ,  skeletal anomalies ,  facial dysmorphism and abnormal dermatoglyphics .
a malignant neoplasm involving the lung .
pmm2 - cdg is the most frequent form of congenital disorder of n - glycosylation and is characterized by cerebellar dysfunction ,  abnormal fat distribution ,  inverted nipples ,  strabismus and hypotonia .
 ( 14q21 )  .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the cpn1 gene ,  encoding carboxypeptidase n catalytic chain .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of dilated cardiomyopathy and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism  ( dcm - hh )  .
heart defects limb shortening is an association disorder combining congenital heart malformation and skeletal dysplasia  ( including coronal clefting of the vertebral bodies and short limbs )  .
carnitine - acylcarnitine translocase  ( cact )  deficiency is a life - threatening ,  inherited disorder of fatty acid oxidation which usually presents in the neonatal period with severe hypoketotic hypoglycemia ,  hyperammonemia ,  cardiomyopathy and / or arrhythmia ,  hepatic dysfunction ,  skeletal muscle weakness ,  and encephalopathy .
systemic primary carnitine deficiency  ( spcd )  is a potentially lethal disorder of fatty acid oxidation characterized classically by early childhood onset cardiomyopathy often with weakness and hypotonia ,  failure to thrive and recurrent hypoglycemic hypoketotic seizures and / or coma .
carnosinemia is a very rare inherited disorder that presents with serum carnosinase deficiency .
congenital cataract  -  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy  -  mitochrondrial myopathy  ( ccm )  is a mitochondrial disease characterized by cataracts ,  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  muscle weakness and lactic acidosis after exercise .
autosomal recessive palmoplantar hyperkeratosis and congenital alopecia  ( ppk - ca )  is a rare genetic skin disorder characterized by congenital alopecia and palmoplantar hyperkeratosis .
congenital cataract - ichthyosis syndrome is characterized by congenital cataract associated with ichthyosis .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lemd2 gene .
cerebrooculofacioskeletal  ( cofs )  syndrome is a rare genetic disorder ,  belonging to a family of diseases of dna repair ,  characterized by a severe sensorineural involvement .
cataract - ataxia - deafness syndrome is characterised by mild intellectual deficit ,  congenital cataract ,  progressive sensorineural deafness and ataxia .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of intellectual deficit ,  congenital cataract ,  and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
cenani - lenz syndrome  ( cls )  is a congenital malformation syndrome that associates a complex syndactyly of the hands with malformations of the forearm bones and similar manifestations in the lower limbs .
cereballar ataxia  -  ectodermal dysplasia is a very rare disease ,  characterized by hypodontia and sparse hair in combination with cerebellar ataxia and normal intelligence .
cerebellar ataxia - hypogonadism syndrome is a very rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the combination of progressive cerebellar ataxia with onset from early childhood to the fourth decade ,  and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism  ( delayed puberty and lack of secondary sex characteristics )  .
early onset cerebellar ataxia with retained reflexes  ( eocarr )  or harding ataxia is a cerebellar ataxia characterized by the progressive association of a cerebellar and pyramidal syndrome with progressive cerebellar ataxia ,  brisk tendon reflexes ,  and sometimes profound sensory loss .
hypoplasia of the cerebellum that is associated with inherited metabolic disorders and neurodegenerative disorders .
endosteal sclerosis - cerebellar hypoplasia syndrome is characterized by congenital cerebellar hypoplasia ,  endosteal sclerosis ,  hypotonia ,  ataxia ,  mild to moderate developmental delay ,  short stature ,  hip dislocation ,  and tooth eruption disturbances .
hepatic fibrosis - renal cysts - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  syndromic intellectual disability characterized by early developmental delay with failure to thrive ,  intellectual disability ,  congenital hepatic fibrosis ,  renal cystic dysplasia ,  and dysmorphic facial features  ( bilateral ptosis ,  anteverted nostrils ,  high arched palate ,  and micrognathia )  .
the disorders involving primarily the cerebellar parenchyma have been classified into six forms .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the inpp5e gene .
a condition marked by progressive cerebellar ataxia combined with myoclonus usually presenting in the third decade of life or later .
bilateral striopallidodentate calcinosis  ( bspdc ,  also erroneously called fahr disease )  is characterized by the accumulation of calcium deposits in different brain regions ,  particularly the basal ganglia and dentate nucleus ,  and is often associated with neurodegeneration .
cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis  ( ctx )  is an anomaly of bile acid synthesis characterized by neonatal cholestasis ,  childhood - onset cataract ,  adolescent to young adult - onset tendon xanthomata ,  and brain xanthomata with adult - onset neurologic dysfunction .
cerebro - facio - thoracic dysplasia or pascual - castroviejo syndrome type 1 is a rare syndrome characterized by facial dysmorphism ,  intellectual deficit and costovertebral abnormalities .
any cofs syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc6 gene .
congenital neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis  ( cncl )  is a severe form of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis  ( ncl )  with onset at birth characterized by primary microcephaly ,  neonatal epilepsy ,  and death in early infancy .
any isolated klippel - feil syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the meox1 gene .
charcot - marie - tooth disease - deafness - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare demyelinating hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by early - onset ,  slowly progressive ,  distal muscular weakness and atrophy with no sensory impairment ,  congenital sensorineural deafness and mild intellectual disability  ( with absence of normal speech development )  .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4a  ( cmt4a )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by early - onset  ( infancy to early childhood )  of severe ,  rapidly progressing demyelinating ,  axonal ,  or intermediate sensorimotor neuropathy usually affecting first ,  and more severely ,  the distal lower extremities and later the proximal muscles and upper extremities .
a griscelli syndrome characterized by silvery gray sheen of the hair ,  hypopigmentation of the skin and neurological impairment without immunodeficiency that has material basis in mutations in the myo5a gene on chromosome 15q21 .2 .
chc ) diak - higashi syndrome  ( chs )  is a rare severe genetic disorder generally characterized by partial oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca )  ,  severe immunodeficiency ,  mild bleeding ,  neurological dysfunction and lymphoproliferative disorder .
any secretory diarrhea in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc26a3 gene .
charge syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by the variable combination of multiple anomalies ,  mainly coloboma ;  choanal atresia / stenosis ;  cranial nerve dysfunction ;  characteristic ear anomalies  ( known as the major 4 c's )  .
cholestasis - lymphedema syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis ,  often lessening and becoming intermittent with age ,  and severe chronic lymphedema which mainly affects the lower limbs .
congenital bile acid synthesis defect type 4  ( bas defect type 4 )  is an anomaly of bile acid synthesis characterized by mild cholestatic liver disease ,  fat malabsorption and / or neurological disease .
blomstrand lethal chondrodysplasia  ( blc )  is a neonatal osteosclerotic dysplasia characterized by advanced endochondral bone maturation ,  very short limbs ,  dwarfism and prenatal lethality .
rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata type 1  ( rcdp1 )  is a condition that impairs the normal development of many parts of the body .
chondrodysplasia punctata ,  toriello type is a rare ,  non - rhizomelic ,  primary bone dysplasia syndrome characterized by calcific stippling of epiphyses in association with minor facial abnormalities ,  short stature and ocular colobomata .
a very rare lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by fetal hydrops ,  short limbs and abnormal chondro - osseous calcification .
otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia  ( osmed )  is an inborn error of cartilage collagen formation characterized by sensorineural hearing loss ,  enlarged epiphyses ,  skeletal dysplasia with disproportionately short limbs ,  vertebral body anomalies and a characteristic facies .
a malignant cartilaginous matrix - producing mesenchymal neoplasm arising from the bone and soft tissue .
chordomas are rare malignant tumors arising from embryonic remnants of the notochord in axial skeleton .
benign hereditary chorea  ( bhc )  is a rare movement disorder that beginsin infancy or childhood .
ataxia - hypogonadism - choroidal dystrophy syndrome is a very rare autosomal recessive ,  slowly progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the triad of cerebellar ataxia  ( that generally manifests at adolescence or early adulthood )  ,  chorioretinal dystrophy ,  which may have a later onset  ( up to the fifth - sixth decade )  leading to variable degrees of visual impairment ,  and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism  ( delayed puberty and lack of secondary sex characteristics )  .
this syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  calcification of the choroid plexus ,  and elevated levels of cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  protein .
central areolar choroidal dystrophy  ( cacd )  is a hereditary macular disorder ,  usually presenting between the ages of 30 - 60 ,  characterized by a large area of atrophy in the centre of the macula and the loss or absence of photoreceptors ,  retinal pigment epithelium and choriocapillaris in this area ,  resulting in a progressive decrease in visual acuity .
citrullinemia type i is a rare autosomal recessive urea cycle defect characterized biologically by hyperammonemia and clinically by progressive lethargy ,  poor feeding and vomiting in the neonatal form  ( acute neonatal citrullinemia type i )  and by variable hyperammonemia in the later - onset form  ( adult - onset citrullinemia type i )  .
verloove vanhorick - brubakk syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by multiple skeletal malformations  ( short femora and humeri ,  bilateral absence of metatarsal and metacarpal bone in hands and feet ,  bilateral partial syndactyly of fingers and toes or oligopolysyndactyly ,  deformed lumbosacral spine )  ,  congenital heart disease  ( truncus arteriosus )  ,  lung and urogenital malformations  ( bilateral bilobar lungs ,  horseshoe kidney ,  cryptorchidism )  ,  and facial malformations  ( bilateral cleft lip and palate ,  micrognathia ,  small ,  low - set ears without external meatus )  .
juberg - hayward syndrome is a polymalformative syndrome that associates multiple skeletal anomalies with microcephaly ,  facial dysmorphism ,  urogenital anomalies and intellectual deficit .
cleft palate  -  stapes fixation  -  oligodontia is characterized by cleft soft palate ,  severe oligodontia of the deciduous teeth ,  absence of the permanent dentition ,  bilateral conductive deafness due to fixation of the footplate of the stapes ,  short halluces with a wide space between the first and second toes ,  and fusion of carpal and tarsal bones .
yunis - varon syndrome is a rare condition that affects many different parts of the body .
joubert syndrome with hepatic defect is a very rare subtype of joubert syndrome and related disorders  ( jsrd )  characterized by the neurological features of js associated with congenital hepatic fibrosis  ( chf )  .
cockayne syndrome type iii ,  also known as the mild form of cockayne syndrome ,  is a rare genetic disorder that causes early  ( premature )  aging .
cohen syndrome  ( cs )  is a rare genetic developmental disorder characterized by microcephaly ,  characteristic facial features ,  hypotonia ,  non - progressive intellectual deficit ,  myopia and retinal dystrophy ,  neutropenia and truncal obesity .
familial reactive perforating collagenosis is a very rare genetic skin disease characterized by transepidermal elimination of collagen fibers presenting as recurrent spontaneously involuting keratotic papules or nodules .
macular coloboma - cleft palate - hallux valgus syndrome is characterised by the association of bilateral macular coloboma ,  cleft palate ,  and hallux valgus .
achromatopsia 2 is a condition that affects the color vision .
lack of production of either functional c1r or c1s protein ,  due to a genetic defect .
complement component 2 deficiency  ( c2d )  is a genetic condition that affects the immune system .
jalili syndrome is characterized by the association of amelogenesis imperfecta  ( ai )  and cone - rod retinal dystrophy  ( cord )  .
severe hypoplasminogenemia  ( hpg )  or type 1 plasminogen  ( plg )  deficiency is a systemic disease characterised by markedly impaired extracellular fibrinolysis leading to the formation of ligneous  ( fibrin - rich )  pseudomembranes on mucosae during wound healing .
aortic arch interruption is a rare heart defect characterized by complete lack of anatomical continuity between the transverse aortic arch and the descending thoracic aorta .
constriction rings syndrome is a congenital limb malformation disorder with an extremely variable clinical presentation characterized by the presence of partial to complete ,  congenital ,  fibrous ,  circumferential ,  constriction bands / rings on any part of the body ,  although a particular predilection for the upper or lower extremities is seen .
malignant hyperthermia - arthrogryposis - torticollisis an extremely rare arthrogryposis syndrome ,  described in only two pairs of siblings from two unrelated families to date ,  and characterized by the association of arthrogryposis ,  congenital torticollis ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( i .e .
any cornea plana in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kera gene .
corneal dystrophy - perceptive deafness  ( cdpd )  or harboyan syndrome is a degenerative corneal disorder characterized by the association of congenital hereditary endothelial dystrophy  ( ched )  with progressive ,  postlingual sensorineural hearing loss .
the deposition of calcium on the cornea ,  resulting in pain and decreased visual acuity .
central cloudy dystrophy of franois is a very rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by polygonal or rounded stromal opacities surrounded by clear tissue ,  and generally no effect on vision .
congenital hereditary endothelial dystrophy ii  ( ched ii )  is a rare subtype of posterior corneal dystrophy characterized by a diffuse ground - glass appearance of the corneas and marked corneal thickening from birth with nystagmus ,  and blurred vision .
macular corneal dystrophy  ( mcd )  is a rare ,  severe form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by bilateral ill - defined cloudy regions within a hazy stroma ,  and eventually severe visual impairment .
toriello carey syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by craniofacial dysmorphic features ,  cerebral anomalies ,  swallowing difficulties ,  cardiac defects and hypotonia .
a congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the corpus callosum .
this syndrome is characterised by cortical blindness ,  intellectual deficit ,  and polydactyly .
apparent mineralocorticoid excess  ( ame )  is a rare form of pseudohyperaldosteronism characterized by very early - onset and severe hypertension ,  associated with low renin levels and hypoaldosteronism .
costello syndrome  ( cs )  is a rare multisystemic disorder characterized by failure to thrive ,  short stature ,  developmental delay or intellectual disability ,  joint laxity ,  soft skin ,  and distinctive facial features .
crane - heise syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by poorly mineralized calvarium ,  facial dysmorphism ,  vertebral abnormalities and absent clavicles .
craniodiaphyseal dysplasia is a rare sclerotic bone disorder with a variable phenotypic expression with massive generalized hyperostosis and sclerosis ,  particularly of the skull and facial bones ,  that may lead to severe deformity .
cranioectodermal dysplasia  ( ced )  is a rare developmental disorder characterized by congenital skeletal and ectodermal defects associated with dysmorphic features ,  nephronophthisis ,  hepatic fibrosis and ocular anomalies  ( mainly retinitis pigmentosa )  .
temtamy syndrome is a very rare congenital genetic neurological disorder characterized by agenesis / hypoplasia of corpus callosum with developmental abnormalities ,  ocular disorders ,  and variable craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities .
craniofacial dyssynostosis  ( cfd )  is a rare cranial malformation syndrome characterized by the premature closure of both lambdoid sutures and the posterior sagittal suture ,  resulting in abnormal skull contour  ( frontal bossing ,  anterior turricephaly with mild brachycephaly ,  biparietal narrowing ,  occipital concavity )  and dysmorphic facial features  ( low - set ears ,  midfacial hypoplasia )  .
autosomal recessive form of craniometaphyseal dysplasia .
pfeiffer - type cardiocranial syndrome is an extremely rare disorder recognized in less than ten patients worldwide and characterized by a congenital heart defect ,  sagittal craniosynostosis and severe developmental delay  ( growth retardation and intellectual deficit )  .
craniosynostosis - fibular aplasia is an extremely rare genetic disease ,  reported in only 2 brothers to date ,  characterized by the combination of craniosynostosis  ( involving both coronal sutures )  ,  congenital absence of the fibula ,  cryptorchidism ,  and bilateral simian creases .
baller - gerold syndrome is characterized by the association of coronal craniosynostosis with radial ray anomalies  ( oligodactyly ,  aplasia or hypoplasia of the thumb ,  aplasia or hypoplasia of the radius )  .
a recessive syndrome characterized by craniosynostosis ,  mental retardation ,  seizures ,  choroidal coloboma ,  dysplastic kidneys ,  bat ears ,  cleft lip and palate ,  and beaked nose .
craniotelencephalic dysplasia is an extremely rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by craniosynostosis with frontal encephalocele and various additional brain anomalies  ( severe hydrocephalus ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  lissencephaly and polymicrogyria ,  parenchymal cysts ,  septo - optic dysplasia )  resulting in marked cerebral dysfunction ,  seizures and very severe psychomotor delay .
a thyroid hormone resistance syndrome characterized by resistance in the pituitary gland and in most or all of the peripheral tissues .
crigler - najjar syndrome  ( cns )  is a hereditary disorder of bilirubin metabolism characterized by unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia due to a hepatic deficit of bilirubin glucuronosyltransferase  ( gt )  activity .
cataract  -  nephropathy  -  encephalopathy syndrome describes a lethal combination of manifestations including short stature ,  congenital cataracts ,  encephalopathy with epileptic fits ,  and postmortem confirmation of nephropathy  ( renal tubular necrosis )  .
fraser syndrome is a rare clinical entity including as main characteristics cryptophthalmos and syndactyly .
the failure of one or both testes of a male fetus to descend from the abdomen into the scrotum during the late part of pregnancy .
acth - independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia  ( aimah )  is a rare cause of cushing syndrome  ( cs )  characterized by nodular enlargement of both adrenal glands  ( multiple nodules above 1 cm in diameter )  that produce excess cortisol and features of adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  independent cs .
cushing's syndrome due to abnormally high secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  from the pituitary gland .
cutaneous photosensitivity and lethal colitisis is a rare inflammatory bowel disease characterized by early cutaneous photosensitivity manifesting by sun - induced facial erythematous and vesicular lesions and severe recurent colitis which lead to untreatable diarrhea .
an autosomal recessive cutis laxa type i that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the fbln5 gene on chromosome 14q32 .
aldh18a1 - related de barsy syndrome combines intellectual deficit ,  bilateral cataracts ,  and skin and joint hyperlaxity .
cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita  ( cmtc )  is a congenital localized or generalized vascular anomaly characterized by a persistent cutis marmorata pattern with a marbled bluish to deep purple appearance ,  spider nevus - like telangiectasia ,  phlebectasia and ,  occasionally ,  ulceration and atrophy of the affected skin .
cystathioninuria is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by cystathionine gamma - lyase deficiency .
cystic fibrosis  ( cf )  is a genetic disorder characterized by the production of sweat with a high salt content and mucus secretions with an abnormal viscosity .
a rare genetic disease reported in two siblings of consanguineous arab parents and is characterized by cystic fibrosis ,  gastritis associated with helicobacter pylori ,  folate deficiency megaloblastic anemia ,  and intellectual disability .
ocular cystinosis is the benign ,  adult form of cystinosis ,  a metabolic disease characterized by an accumulation of cystine crystals in the cornea and conjunctiva responsible for tearing and photophobia and associated with no other additional manifestations .
nephropathic juvenile cystinosis is the intermediate form ,  in regards to severity and age of onset ,  of cystinosis ,  a metabolic disease characterized by an accumulation of cystine inside the lysosomes that causes damage in different organs and tissues ,  particularly in the kidneys and eyes .
cystinuria is a renal tubular amino acid transport disorder characterized by recurrent formation of kidneys cystine stones .
a very rare inherited metabolic disorder characterized by deficiency of the enzyme cytochrome - c oxidase .
saguenay - lac - st . jean  ( slsj )  type congenital lactic acidosis ,  a french canadian form of leigh syndrome ,  is a mitochondrial disease characterized by chronic metabolic acidosis ,  hypotonia ,  facial dysmorphism and delayed development .
a metabolic disorder characterized by d - glyceric acid excretion .
hereditary renal hypouricemia  ( hrh )  is a rare autosomal recessively inherited renal membrane transport disorder affecting urate reabsorption in the proximal tubules leading to usually asymptomatic hypouricemia and predisposing to urolithiasis and exercise induced acute renal failure  ( eiarf )  .
dandy - walker malformation  ( dwm )  is the association of three signs: hydrocephalus ,  partial or complete absence of the cerebellar vermis ,  and posterior fossa cyst contiguous with the fourth ventricle ,  presenting early in life with hydrocephalus ,  bulging occiput and posterior fossa signs such as cranial nerve palsies ,  nystagmus and ataxia .
any ritscher - schinzel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the washc5 gene .
facial dysmorphism - macrocephaly - myopia - dandy - walker malformation syndrome is characterised by dandy - walker malformation ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  macrocephaly ,  brachytelephalangy ,  facial dysmorphism and severe myopia .
dandy - walker malformation with postaxial polydactyly syndrome is a syndromic disorder with ,  as a major feature ,  the association between dandy - walker malformation and postaxial polydactyly .
an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the gjb2 gene ,  encoding gap junction beta - 2 protein .
jervell and lange - nielsen syndrome  ( jlns )  is an autosomal recessive variant of familial long qt syndrome characterized by congenital profound bilateral sensorineural hearing loss ,  a long qt interval on electrocardiogram and ventricular tachyarrhythmias .
doors syndrome  ( also known as door syndrome )  is a multiple congenital anomalies - intellectual disability syndrome characterized by sensorineural hearing loss  ( deafness )  ,  onychodystrophy ,  osteodystrophy ,  mild to profound intellectual disability ,  and seizures .
split hand  -  split foot  -  deafness is an extremely rare genetic syndrome reported in a few families to date and characterized clinically by split hand / split foot malformation  ( shfm )  and mild to moderate sensorineural hearing loss ,  sometimes associated with cleft palate and intellectual deficit .
high myopia - sensorineural deafness syndrome is a rare genetic disease characterized by high myopia ,  typically ranging from  - 6 .0 to  - 11 .0 diopters ,  and moderate to profound ,  bilateral ,  progressive sensorineural hearing loss with prelingual - onset .
conductive deafness - ptosis - skeletal anomalies syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by conductive hearing loss due to atresia of the external auditory canal and the middle ear complicated by chronic infection ,  ptosis and skeletal anomalies  ( internal rotation of hips ,  dislocation of the radial heads and fifth finger clinodactyly )  .
deafness - vitiligo - achalasia syndrome is characterized by the association of deafness ,  short stature ,  vitiligo ,  muscle wasting ,  and achalasia .
deafness - small bowel diverticulosis - neuropathy syndrome is characterised by progressive sensorineural deafness ,  progressive sensory neuropathy and gastrointestinal abnormalities  ( progressive loss of gastric motility ,  small bowel diverticulosis )  .
deafness - oligodontia syndrome is characterised by sensorineural hearing loss and oligodontia / hypodontia .
non - acquired combined pituitary hormone deficiency - sensorineural hearing loss - spine abnormalities syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - acquired ,  combined pituitary hormone deficiency disorder characterized by panhypopituitarism  ( with or without acth deficiency )  associated with spine abnormalities ,  including frequent rigid cervical spine and short neck with limited rotation ,  and variable degrees of sensorineural hearing loss .
nasu - hakola disease  ( nhd )  ,  also referred to as polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy  ( plosl )  ,  is a rare inherited leukodystrophy characterized by progressive presenile dementia associated with recurrent bone fractures due to polycystic osseous lesions of the lower and upper extremities .
dermatoleukodystrophy is characterised by the association of a progressive leukodystrophy marked by generalised mental and motor impairment with the presence of thickened and wrinkled skin .
dermochondrocorneal dystrophy is characterised by osteochondrodystrophy of the hands and feet ,  corneal dystrophy and the presence of skin nodules clustered around the metacarpophalangeal and interphalangeal joints ,  around the nose and ears and on the posterior surface of the elbow .
dermatoosteolysis ,  kirghizian type ,  is characterised by recurrent skin ulceration ,  arthralgia ,  fever ,  peri - articular osteolysis ,  oligodontia and nail dystrophy .
hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with axonal spheroids and pigmented glia is a rare autosomal dominant disease characterized by a complex phenotype including progressive dementia ,  apraxia ,  apathy ,  impaired balance ,  parkinsonism ,  spasticity and epilepsy .
autosomal recessive form of persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous .
this syndrome is characterised by nephrogenic diabetes insipidus ,  intracerebral calcifications ,  intellectual deficit ,  short stature and facial dysmorphism .
any wolfram syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wfs1 gene .
donnai - barrow syndrome  ( dbs )  is a rare ,  often severe ,  multiple congenital malformation syndrome with typical facial dysmorphism ,  ocular findings ,  hearing loss ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  and variable intellectual disability .
syndromic diarrhea  ( sd )  ,  or tricho - hepato - enteric syndrome  ( the )  ,  is a severe congenital enteropathy manifesting as intractable diarrhea in the first month of life with failure to thrive and associated with facial dysmorphism ,  hair abnormalities ,  and ,  in some cases ,  immune disorders and intrauterine growth restriction .
a rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue .
diastrophic dwarfism is a rare disorder marked by short stature with short extremities  ( final adult height is 120cm  +  /  -  10cm )  ,  and joint malformations leading to multiple joint contractures  ( principally involving the shoulders ,  elbows ,  interphalangeal joints and hips )  .
hyperdibasic aminoaciduria ,  type 1 is characterised by increased renal clearance of lysine ,  ornithine and arginine ,  in the presence of normal concentrations of cystine .
lysinuric protein intolerance  ( lpi )  is a very rare inherited multisystem condition caused by distrubance in amino acid metabolism .
dicarboxylicaminoaciduria is characterised by infantile - onset hypoglycaemia and hyperprolinaemia associated ,  in certain cases ,  with intellectual deficit .
dihydropyrimidinase  ( dpd )  deficiency is a very rare pyrimidine metabolism disorder with a variable clinical presentation including gastrointestinal manifestations  ( feeding problems ,  cyclic vomiting ,  gastroesophageal reflux ,  malabsorption with villous atrophy )  ,  hypotonia ,  intellectual deficit ,  seizures ,  and less frequently growth retardation ,  failure to thrive ,  microcephaly and autism .
any rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gnpat gene .
a rare ,  autosomal recessive ,  inherited disorder caused by mutation of the bpgm gene .
a disorder of carbohydrate absorption and transport caused by autosomal recessive mutation of the si gene ,  characterised by malabsorption of sucrose and maltose .
congenital lactase deficiency is a rare severe gastrointestinal disorder in newborns primarily reported in finland and characterized clinically by watery diarrhea on feeding with breast - milk or lactose - containing formula .
inability to fully digest and absorb lactose due to limited or no lactase activity in the small intestine .
marfanoid syndrome ,  da silva type is characterized by the association of marfanoid habitus with visceral diverticula .
von voss - cherstvoy syndrome is a very rare disorder with phocomelia of upper limbs ,  encephalocele ,  variable brain anomalies ,  urogenital abnormalities ,  and thrombocytopenia .
dopamine beta - hydroxylase deficiency is an extremely rare genetic metabolic disorder characterized by autonomic dysregulation leading mainly to orthostatic hypotension .
dubowitz syndrome  ( ds )  is a rare multiple congenital syndrome characterized primarly by growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  distinctive facial dysmorphism ,  cutaneous eczema ,  a mild to severe intellectual deficit and genital abnormalities .
duodenal atresia is an embryopathy of the cranial intestine that leads to a complete absence of the duodenal lumen .
dyggve - melchior - clausen disease  ( dmc )  is a rare skeletal disorder belonging to the group of spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasias .
a congenital disorder caused by mutations in the ikbkap gene .
a non - progressive cerebellar disorder characterized by ataxia associated with an intellectual disability ,  delayed ambulation and cerebellar hypoplasia .
congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type ii  ( cda ii )  is the most common form of cda characterized by anemia ,  jaundice and splenomegaly and often leading to liver iron overload and gallstones .
a dyskeratosis congenita that has material basis in an autosomal recessive mutation of nola3 on chromosome 15q14 .
dysosteosclerosis is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by progressive osteosclerosis and platyspondyly .
dyssegmental dysplasia ,  silverman - handmaker type is a rare ,  genetic ,  primary bone dysplasia ,  and lethal form of neonatal short - limbed dwarfism ,  characterized by anisospondyly ,  severe short stature and limb shortening ,  metaphyseal flaring and distinct dysmorphic features  ( i .e .
primary dystonia dyt2 type is characterized by segmental dystonia that manifests with involuntary posturing affecting predominantly the feet .
any meier - gorlin syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the orc1 gene .
ebstein's malformation is a rare congenital cardiac anomaly characterized by rotational displacement of the septal and inferior leaflets of the tricuspid valve such that they are hinged within the right ventricle ,  rather than as expected at the atrioventricular junction .
schc6pf - schulz - passarge syndrome  ( ssps )  is a rare autosomal recessive ectodermal dysplasia characterized by multiple eyelid apocrine hidrocystomas ,  palmoplantar keratoderma ,  hypotrichosis ,  hypodontia and nail dystrophy .
ectodermal dysplasia - sensorineural deafness syndrome is characterised by hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  and contracture of the fifth fingers .
a rare congenital ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with a range of signs and symptoms including cleft lip or palate ,  mental retardation and various forms of ectodermal dysplasia .
ectodermal dysplasia - intellectual disability - central nervous system malformation syndrome is a rare ,  multiple developmental anomalies syndrome characterized by the triad of ectodermal dysplasia  ( mostly hypohidrotic with dry skin and reduced sweating and sparse ,  fair scalp hair ,  eyebrows and eyelashes )  ,  severe intellectual disability and variable central nervous system anomalies  ( cerebellar hypoplasia ,  dilatation of ventricles ,  corpus callosum agenesis ,  dandy - walker malformation )  .
hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia - hypothyroidism - ciliary dyskinesia syndrome is characterised by alopecia ,  nail dystrophy ,  ophthalmic complications ,  thyroid dysfunction  ( primary hypothyroidism )  ,  hypohidrosis ,  ephelides ,  enteropathy ,  and respiratory tract infections due to ciliary dyskinesia ,  leading to suggestion of the acronym another syndrome as alternative name for this condition .
zlotogora - ogur syndrome is an ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by hair ,  skin and teeth anomalies ,  facial dysmophism with cleft lip and palate ,  cutaneous syndactyly and ,  in some cases ,  intellectual disability .
an isolated ectopia lentis that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the adamtsl4 gene on chromosome 1q21 .
any hypothyroidism ,  congenital ,  nongoitrous in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nkx2 - 5 gene .
eem syndrome is characterised by the association of ectodermal dysplasia ,  ectrodactyly ,  and macular dystrophy .
ectrodactyly - polydactyly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation disorder characterized by hypoplasia or absence of central digital rays of the hands and / or feet and the presence of one or more ,  unilateral or bilateral ,  supernumerary digits on postaxial rays ,  ranging from hypoplastic digits devoid of osseous structures to complete duplication of a digit .
any split hand - foot malformation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wnt10b gene .
ehlers - danlos syndromes  ( eds )  form a heterogeneous group of inherited connective tissue disorders characterized by variable joint hypermobility and cutaneous hyperextensibility .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  cardiac valvular type is a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by soft skin ,  skin hyperextensibility ,  easy bruisability ,  atrophic scar formation ,  joint hypermobility and cardiac valvular defects comprising mitral and / or aortic valve insufficiency .
a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome  ( eds )  characterized by extreme skin fragility and laxity ,  a prominent facial gestalt ,  excessive bruising and ,  sometimes ,  major complications due to visceral and vascular fragility .
ellis - van creveld syndrome  ( evc )  is a skeletal and ectoderlam dysplasia characterized by a tetrad of short stature ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  ectodermal dysplasia ,  and congenital heart defects .
any aicardi - goutieres syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trex1 gene .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 4  ( pch4 )  is a very rare form of pch ,  characterized by prenatal onset of polyhydramnios and contractures followed by hypertonia ,  severe clonus ,  primary hypoventilation leading to an early postnatal death .
bonnemann - meinecke - reich syndrome is a syndrome of multiple congenital anomalies characterized by an encephalopathy which predominantly occurs in the first year of life and presenting as psychomotor delay .
endomyocardial fibroelastosis is a cause of unexplained childhood cardiac insufficiency .
an inflammatory process affecting the small intestine and colon .
congenital enteropathy due to enteropeptidase deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  gastroenterological disease characterized by early - onset failure to thrive ,  edema ,  hypoproteinemia ,  diarrhea and fat malabsorption  ( or steatorrhea )  in the presence of very low or absent trypsin activity in duodenal fluid .
pathological conditions in the intestines that are characterized by the gastrointestinal loss of serum proteins ,  including serum albumin ;  immunoglobulins ;  and at times lymphocytes .
eosinophilic fasciitis is a rare connective tissue disease that is characterized by inflammation and thickening of the fascia ,  usually associated with peripheral eosinophilia .
epidermodysplasia verruciformis  ( ev )  is a rare inherited genodermatosis characterized by chronic infection with human papillomavirus  ( hpv )  leading to polymorphous cutaneous lesions and high risk of developing non melanoma skin cancer .
severe generalized recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( rdeb - sev gen )  is the most severe subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  ,  formerly known as the hallopeau - siemens type ,  and is characterized by generalized cutaneous and mucosal blistering and scarring associated with severe deformities and major extracutaneous involvement .
junctional epidermolysis bullosa ,  non - herlitz  ( jeb - nh )  is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  characterized by the presence of skin and mucosal blistering ,  nail dystrophy or nail absence and enamel hypoplasia .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex with muscular dystrophy  ( ebs - md )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by generalized blistering associated with muscular dystrophy .
junctional epidermolysis bullosa ,  herlitz - type is a severe subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  characterized by blisters and extensive erosions ,  localized to the skin and mucous membranes .
junctional epidermolysis bullosa with pyloric atresia is a severe subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  characterized by generalized blistering at birth and congenital atresia of the pylorus and rarely of other portions of the gastrointestinal tract .
kohlschtter - tc6nz syndrome  ( kts )  is a genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by the triad of amelogenesis imperfect ,  infantile onset epilepsy ,  intellectual disability with or without regression and dementia .
celiac disease ,  epilepsy and cerebral calcification syndrome  ( cec )  is a rare disorder characterized by the combination of auto - immune intestinal disease ,  epileptic seizures and cerebral calcifications .
epilepsy telangiectasia syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy ,  palpebral conjunctival telangiectasias and diminished serum iga ,  particular facies and a shortened fifth finger .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia type 4 is a multiple epiphyseal dysplasia with a late - childhood onset ,  characterized by joint pain involving hips ,  knees ,  wrists ,  and fingers with occasional limitation of joint movements ,  deformity of hands ,  feet ,  and knees  ( club foot ,  clinodactyly ,  brachydactyly )  ,  scoliosis and slightly reduced adult height .
lowry - wood syndrome is characterized by the association of epiphyseal dysplasia ,  short stature ,  microcephaly and ,  in the first reported cases ,  congenital nystagmus .
wolcott - rallison syndrome  ( wrs )  is a very rare genetic disease ,  characterized by permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus  ( pndm )  with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia and other clinical manifestations ,  including recurrent episodes of acute liver failure .
chronic active epstein - barr virus infection  ( caebv )  is a rare progressive disease that begins as a primary epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  infection .
cutaneous albinism - ermine phenotype is characterised by the association of white hair with black tufts ,  depigmented skin and sensorineural deafness .
an acquired pure red cell aplasia that is self - limited .
congenital lethal erythroderma is a rare skin disorder characterized by erythrodermic ,  peeling skin from birth with no obvious nail or hair - shaft abnormalities and other associated anomalies including diarrhea ,  failure to thrive and severe hypoalbuminaemia resistant to correction by enteral or intravenous supplementation .
eyebrow duplication - syndactyly syndrome is characterised by partial duplication of the eyebrows and syndactyly of the fingers and toes .
focal facial dermal dysplasia type iii  ( ffdd3 )  is a rare focal facial facial dysplasia  ( ffdd )  ,  characterized primarily by congenital bitemporal scar - like depressions and a typical ,  but variable facial dysmorphism ,  which may include distichiasis  ( upper lids )  or lacking eyelashes ,  slanted eyebrows and a flattened and / or bulbous nasal tip and other features such as a low frontal hairline ,  sparse hair ,  redundant skin ,  epicanthal folds ,  low - set dysplastic ears ,  blepharitis and conjunctivitis .
lethal faciocardiomelic dysplasia is an extremely rare polymalformative syndrome .
faciocardiorenal syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by intellectual deficit ,  horseshoe kidney ,  and congenital heart defects .
any combined deficiency of factor v and factor viii in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lman1 gene .
autosomal recessive facio - digito - genital syndrome is a very rare syndrome including short stature ,  facial dysmorphism ,  hand abnormalities and shawl scrotum .
congenital factor v deficiency is an inherited bleeding disorder due to reduced plasma levels of factor v  ( fv )  and characterized by mild to severe bleeding symptoms .
factor vii  ( fvii )  deficiency is a rare hereditary hemorrhagic disease caused by the diminution or absence of this coagulation factor .
congenital factor x deficiency is an inherited bleeding disorder with a decreased antigen and / or activity of factor x  ( fx )  and characterized by mild to severe bleeding symptoms .
fanconi anemia caused by mutations of the fancc gene .
fanconi anemia caused by mutations of the fancd2 gene .
fanconi anemia caused by mutations of the fanca gene .
fanconi - bickel glycogenosis  ( fbg )  is a rare glycogen storage disease characterized by hepatorenal glycogen accumulation ,  severe renal tubular dysfunction and impaired glucose and galactose metabolism .
a syndrome characterized by pancytopenia ,  immune deficiency and cutaneous malignancies .
farber disease is a rare sphingolipid disorder characterized by a spectrum of clinical signs ranging from the classical triad of painful and progressively deformed joints ,  subcutaneous nodules ,  and progressive hoarseness  ( due to laryngeal involvement )  that presents in infancy ,  to varying phenotypes with respiratory and neurologic involvement .
femur - fibula - ulna  ( ffu )  complex is a non - lethal congenital anomaly of unknown etiology ,  more frequently reported in males than females ,  characterized by a highly variable combination of defects of the femur ,  fibula ,  and / or ulna ,  with striking asymmetry ,  including absence of the proximal part of the femur ,  absence of the fibula and malformation of the ulnar side of the upper limb .
gollop - wolfgang complex is a very rare malformation characterized by ectrodactyly of the hand and ipsilateral bifurcation of the femur .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lhb gene .
fetal iodine syndrome refers to symptoms and signs that may be observed in a fetus or newborn when the mother was exposed during pregnancy to inappropriate  ( insufficient or excessive )  amounts of iodine .
any fibrochondrogenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col11a1 gene .
any myofibromatosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pdgfrb gene .
gingival fibromatosis  -  facial dysmorphism is a very rare syndrome characterized by the association of gingival fibromatosis and craniofacial dysmorphism .
fuhrmann syndrome is mainly characterized by bowing of the femora ,  aplasia or hypoplasia of the fibulae and poly -  ,  oligo -  ,  and syndactyly .
fibulo - ulnar hypoplasia - renal anomalies syndrome is characterized by fibuloulnar dysostosis with renal anomalies .
a rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder characterized by prolonged partial thromboplastin time and absence of bleeding diathesis .
familial benign flecked retina is a rare retinal dystrophy characterized by diffuse bilateral white - yellow fleck - like lessions extending to the far periphery of the retina but sparing the foveal region ,  with asymptomatic clinical phenotype and absence of electrophysiologic deficits .
kandori fleck retina is a rare ,  genetic retinal dystrophy characterized by irregular ,  sharply defined ,  yellowish - white lesions of variable size that are distributed mainly in the nasal equatorial region of the retina ,  with a tendency to confluence ,  that are not associated with any vascular or optic nerve abnormalities .
hyperplasia characterized by the presence of a focal proliferation of epithelial cells .
hereditary folate malabsorption  ( hfm )  is an inherited disorder of folate transport characterized by a systemic and central nervous system  ( cns )  folate deficiency manifesting as megaloblastic anemia ,  failure to thrive ,  diarrhea and / or oral mucositis ,  immunologic dysfunction and neurological disorders .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fshb gene .
formiminoglutamic aciduria ,  in its moderate form and in the absence of histidine administration ,  is characterized by mild developmental delay and elevated concentrations of formiminoglutamate  ( figlu )  in the urine .
fountain syndrome is an extremely rare multi - systemic genetic disorder characterized by intellectual disability ,  deafness ,  skeletal abnormalities and coarse facial features .
brittle cornea syndrome is a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by a severe ocular manifestations due to extreme corneal thinning and fragility with rupture in the absence of significant trauma ,  and progression to blindness .
friedreich ataxia  ( frda )  is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder classically characterized by progressive gait and limb ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  dysphagia ,  oculomotor dysfunction ,  loss of deep tendon reflexes ,  pyramidal tract signs ,  scoliosis ,  and in some ,  cardiomyopathy ,  diabetes mellitus ,  visual loss and defective hearing .
fronto - facio - nasal dysostosis is characterized by multiple craniofacial anomalies  ( brachycephaly ,  blepharophimosis ,  ptosis ,  s - shaped palpebral fissures ,  coloboma ,  cleft lip and palate ,  deformed nostrils ,  encephalocele ,  hypertelorism ,  midface hypoplasia ,  malformed eyes ,  and absent inner eyelashes )  .
hereditary fructose intolerance  ( hfi )  is an autosomal recessive disorder of fructose metabolism ,  resulting from a deficiency of hepatic fructose - 1 - phosphate aldolase activity and leading to gastrointestinal disorders and postprandial hypoglycemia following fructose ingestion .
fructose - 1 , 6 - biphosphatase  ( fbp )  deficiency is a disorder of fructose metabolism characterized by recurrent episodes of fasting hypoglycemia with lactic acidosis ,  that may be life - threatening in neonates and infants .
essential fructosuria is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of fructose metabolism caused by a deficiency of fructokinaseenzyme activity .
fryns syndrome  ( fs )  is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by dysmorphic facial features ,  congenital diaphragmatic hernia ,  pulmonary hypoplasia ,  and distal limb hypoplasia ,  in addition to variable expression of additional malformations .
fucosidosis is an extremely rare lysosomal storage disorder characterized by a highly variable phenotype with common manifestations including neurologic deterioration ,  coarse facial features ,  growth retardation ,  and recurrent sinopulmonary infections ,  as well as seizures ,  visceromegaly ,  angiokeratoma and dysostosis .
galactokinase deficiency is a rare mild form of galactosemia characterized by early onset of cataract and an absence of the usual signs of classic galactosemia ,  i .e .
excessive or inappropriate lactation in females or males ,  and not necessarily related to pregnancy .
galactose epimerase deficiency is a very rare ,  moderate to severe form of galactosemia characterized by moderate to severe signs of impaired galactose metabolism .
classic galactosemia is a life - threatening metabolic disease with onset in the neonatal period .
gamma - glutamylcysteine synthetase deficiency is principally characterized by hemolytic anemia ,   ( usually rather mild )  ,  however ,  the presence of neurological symptoms has also been reported .
gm1 gangliosidosis type 1 is the severe infantile form of gm1 gangliosidosis with variable neurological and systemic manifestations .
gm1 gangliosidosis type 2 is a clinically variable ,  infancy or childhood - onset form of gm1 gangliosidosis characterized by normal early development and psychomotor regression between seven months and three years of age .
gm1 gangliosidosis type 3 is a mild ,  chronic ,  adult form of gm1 gangliosidosis characterized by onset generally during childhood or adolescence and by cerebellar dysfunction .
gapo syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies  ( mca )  syndrome involving connective tissue characterized by growth retardation ,  alopecia ,  pseudoanodontia and ocular manifestations
gastroschisis is marked by viscera protruding ,  without a covering sac ,  from the fetal abdomen on the right lateral base of the umbilicus .
gaucher disease type 1 is the chronic non - neurological form of gaucher disease  ( gd )  characterized by organomegaly ,  bone involvement and cytopenia .
gaucher disease type 2 is the acute neurological form of gaucher disease  ( gd )  .
gaucher disease type 3 is the subacute neurological form of gaucher disease  ( gd )  characterized by progressive encephalopathy and associated with the systemic manifestations  ( organomegaly ,  bone involvement ,  cytopenia )  of gd type 1 .
gaucher disease  -  ophthalmoplegia  -  cardiovascular calcification is a variant of gaucher disease ,  also known as a gaucher - like disease that is characterized by cardiac involvement .
any geleophysic dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the adamtsl2 gene .
genitopalatocardiac syndrome is a rare ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by male ,  46 , xy gonadal dysgenesis ,  cleft palate ,  micrognathia ,  conotruncal heart defects and unspecific skeletal ,  brain and kidney anomalies .
geroderma osteodysplastica  ( go )  is characterized by lax and wrinkled skin  ( especially on the dorsum of the hands and feet and abdomen )  ,  progeroid features ,  hip dislocation ,  joint laxity ,  severe short stature / dwarfism ,  severe osteoporosis ,  vertebral abnormalities and spontaneous fractures ,  and developmental delay and mild intellectual deficit .
german syndrome is an autosomal recessive arthrogryposis syndrome ,  described in 5 cases .
any complete hydatidiform mole in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nlrp7 gene .
ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia syndrome  ( ghdd )  is a rare disorder characterized by increased bone density  ( predominantly diaphyseal )  and aregenerative corticosteroid - sensitive anemia .
neonatal hemochromatosis is a disease in which too much iron builds up inthe body .
bernard soulier syndrome  ( bss )  is an inherited platelet disorder characterized by mild to severe bleeding tendency ,  macrothrombocytopenia and absent ristocetin - induced platelet agglutination .
an autosomal recessive form of congenital glaucoma caused by mutation ( s )  in the cyp1b1 gene ,  encoding cytochrome p450 1b1 .
hyperinsulinism due to short chain 3 hydroxylacyl - coa dehydrogenase  ( schad )  deficiency is a recently described mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation disorder characterized by hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia with seizures ,  and in one case fulminant hepatic failure .
triple a syndrome is a very rare multisystem disease characterized by adrenal insufficiency with isolated glucocorticoid deficiency ,  achalasia ,  alacrima ,  autonomic dysfunction and neurodegeneration .
glutaryl - coa dehydrogenase  ( gcdh )  deficiency  ( gdd )  is an autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder clinically characterized by encephalopathic crises resulting in striatal injury and a severe dystonic dyskinetic movement disorder .
a disorder of fatty acid and amino acid oxidation ,  caused by mutations in etfdh ,  etfa ,  or etfb ,  and is a clinically heterogeneous disorder ranging from a severe neonatal presentation with metabolic acidosis ,  cardiomyopathy and liver disease ,  to a mild childhood / adult disease with episodic metabolic decompensation ,  muscle weakness ,  and respiratory failure .
glutaryl - coa oxidase deficiency is a peroxisomal disorder leading to glutaric aciduria .
gamma - glutamyl transpeptidase deficiency is characterized by increased glutathione concentration in the plasma and urine .
glycogenosis due to glucose - 6 - phosphatase deficiency  ( g6p )  type a ,  or glycogen storage disease  ( gsd )  type 1a ,  is a type of glycogenosis due to g6p deficiency .
glycogenosis due to glucose - 6 - phosphatase deficiency  ( g6p )  type b ,  or glycogen storage disease  ( gsd )  type 1b ,  is a type of glycogenosis due to g6p deficiency .
glycogen storage disease due to acid maltase deficiency  ( amd )  is an autosomal recessive trait leading to metabolic myopathy that affects cardiac and respiratory muscles in addition to skeletal muscle and other tissues .
glycogen debranching enzyme  ( gde )  deficiency ,  or glycogen storage disease type 3  ( gsd 3 )  ,  is a form of glycogen storage disease characterized by severe muscle weakness and hepatopathy .
glycogen branching enzyme  ( gbe )  deficiency  ( andersen's disease or amylopectinosis )  ,  or glycogen storage disease type 4  ( gsd4 )  ,  is a rare and severe form of glycogen storage disease which accounts for approximately 3% of all the glycogen storage diseases .
myophosphorylase deficiency  ( mcardle's disease )  ,  or glycogen storage disease type 5  ( gsd5 )  ,  is a severe form of glycogen storage disease characterized by exercise intolerance .
liver phosphorylase deficiency ,  or glycogen storage disease type 6b  ( hers' disease ,  gsd 6b )  is a benign and rare form of glycogen storage disease .
muscle phosphofructokinase  ( pfk )  deficiency  ( tarui's disease )  ,  or glycogen storage disease type 7  ( gsd7 )  ,  is a rare form of glycogen storage disease characterized by exertional fatigue and muscular exercise intolerance .
familial renal glucosuria  ( frg )  is characterized by the presence of persistent isolated glucosuria in the absence of both generalized proximal tubular dysfunction and hyperglycemia .
46 , xx gonadal dysgenesis  ( 46 , xx gd )  is a primary ovarian defect leading to premature ovarian failure  ( pof )  in otherwise normal 46 , xx females as a result of failure of the gonads to develop or due to resistance to gonadotrophin stimulation .
any perrault syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hsd17b4 gene .
gonadal dysgenesis with multiple anomalies is an association syndrome described only once in two sisters aged 1 1 / 2 and 8 1 / 2 years .
goodpasture syndrome is an autoimmune disease that affects the lungs and kidneys and is characterized by pulmonary alveolar hemorrhage  ( bleeding in the lungs )  and a kidney disease known as glomerulonephritis .
gorlin - chaudhry - moss  ( gcm )  syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by craniofacial dysostosis ,  facial dysmorphism ,  conductive hearing loss ,  generalized hypertrichosis ,  and extremity ,  ocular and dental anomalies .
any chronic granulomatous disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ncf1 gene .
any chronic granulomatous disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ncf2 gene .
deficiency of the peptidic growth factors is characterized by loss of subcutaneous fat layers on the limbs ,  lipodystrophy in the face and trunk and scleroderma - like skin disorders  ( thickened skin on the palms and soles and skin pigment changes on the limbs and trunk )  .
grubben - de cock - borghgraef syndrome is a rare intellectual disability syndrome characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth deficiency ,  generalized muscular hypotonia ,  developmental delay  ( particularly of speech and language )  ,  hypotrophy of distal extremities ,  small and puffy hands and feet ,  eczematous skin and dental anomalies  ( i .e .
congenital factor xii deficiency is an autosomal recessive systemic dysfunction of the hemostatic pathway ,  that is due to a defect in the coagulation factor xii  ( fxii or hageman factor )  ,  and is either asymptomatic or characterized by a prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time and an increased risk for thromboembolism .
calderon - gonzalez - cantu syndrome is characterized by the association of stubby ,  coarse ,  sparse and fragile hair ,  eyebrows and eyelashes with photosensitivity and nonprogressive intellectual deficit without a demonstrable metabolic aberration .
a trichothiodystrophy that is non - photosensitive
hallermann - streiff syndrome is a rare genetic syndrome characterized mainly by head and facial abnormalities such as bird - like facies  ( with beak - shaped nose and retrognathia )  ,  hypoplastic mandible ,  brachycephaly with frontal bossing ,  dental abnormalities  ( e .g .
pantothenate kinase - associated neurodegeneration  ( pkan )  is the most common type of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  ,  a rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive extrapyramidal dysfunction  ( dystonia ,  rigidity ,  choreoathetosis )  ,  iron accumulation on the brain and axonal spheroids in the central nervous system .
hall - riggs syndrome is a very rare syndrome consisting of microcephaly with facial dysmorphism ,  spondylometaepiphyseal dysplasia and severe intellectual deficit .
hallux varus - preaxial polysyndactyly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation disorder characterized by bilateral medial displacement of the hallux and preaxial polysyndactyly of the first toes .
hartnup disease is a rare metabolic disorder belonging to the neutral aminoacidurias and characterized by abnormal renal and gastrointestinal transport of neutral amino acids  ( tryptophan ,  alanine ,  asparagine ,  glutamine ,  histidine ,  isoleucine ,  leucine ,  phenylalanine ,  serine ,  threonine ,  tyrosine and valine )  .
deafness - enamel hypoplasia - nail defects syndrome is characterised by sensorineural hearing loss ,  generalised enamel hypoplasia of the permanent dentition with normal primary dentition ,  and nail defects  ( beau's lines and leukonychia )  .
heart block that occurs on or before 28 days of life .
a rare form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  characterized by a capillary infiltration of the pulmonary interstitium ,  bronchioles and pleura leading to elevated pulmonary arterial resistance and right heart failure .
an uncommon malignant neoplasm arising from pericytes .
isolated hemihyperplasia is a rare overgrowth syndrome characterized by an asymmetric regional body overgrowth ,  involving at least one limb ,  and associated with an increased risk of developing embryonal tumors ,  principally nephroblastoma and hepoblastoma .
a disorder of the blood that is present at birth .
mullerian derivatives - lymphangiectasia - polydactyly syndrome is characterised by prenatal linear growth deficiency ,  hypertrophied alveolar ridges ,  redundant nuchal skin ,  postaxial polydactyly and cryptorchidism .
any hennekam syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccbe1 gene .
hepatic veno - occlusive disease - immunodeficiency syndrome is characterized by the association of severe hypogammaglobulinemia ,  combined t and b cell immunodeficiency ,  absent lymph node germinal centers ,  absent tissue plasma cells and hepatic veno - occlusive disease .
congenital bile acid synthesis defect type 2  ( bas defect type 2 )  is an anomaly of bile acid synthesis characterized by severe and rapidly progressive cholestatic liver disease ,  and malabsorption of fat and fat - soluble vitamins .
nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency  ( nsha due to hk1 deficiency )  is a very rare conditionmainly characterized by severe ,  chronic hemolysis ,  beginning in infancy .
mowat - wilson syndrome  ( mws )  is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by a distinct facial phenotype ,  intellectual disability ,  epilepsy ,  hirschsprung disease  ( hscr )  and variable congenital malformations .
hirschsprung disease - deafness - polydactyly is an extremely rare malformative association ,  described in only two siblings to date ,  and characterized by hirschsprung disease  ( defined by the presence of an aganglionic segment of variable extent in the terminal part of the colon that leads to the symptoms of intestinal obstruction including constipation and abdominal distension )  ,  polydactyly of hands and / or feet ,  unilateral renal agenesis ,  hypertelorism and congenital deafness .
hirschsprung disease  -  nail hypoplasia  -  dysmorphism is a fatal malformative disorder that is characterized by hirschsprung disease ,  hypoplastic nails ,  distal limb hypoplasia and minor craniofacial dysmorphic features  ( flat facies ,  upward slanting palpebral fissures ,  narrow philtrum ,  narrow ,  high arched palate ,  micrognathia ,  low set ears with abnormal helices )  .
histidinemia is a rare metabolic disorder characterized by elevated histidine levels in blood ,  urine ,  and cerebrospinal fluid ,  generally with no clinical repercussions .
classical hodgkin lymphoma  ( chl )  is a b - cell lymphoma characterized histologically by the presence of large mononuclear hodgkin cells and multinucleated reed - sternberg  ( hrs )  cells .
the most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle  ( alobar holoprosencephaly )  .
a syndrome characterized by potter sequence ,  heart defect ,  cleft palate ,  polydactyly ,  and skeletal defects .
homocarnosinosis is a metabolic defect characterised by progressive spastic diplegia ,  intellectual deficit and retinitis pigmentosa .
classical homocystinuria due to cystathionine beta - synthase  ( cbs )  deficiency is characterized by the multiple involvement of the eye ,  skeleton ,  central nervous system ,  and vascular system .
homocystinuria due to methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase  ( mthfr )  deficiency is a metabolic disorder characterised by neurological manifestations .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the mtrr gene ,  encoding methionine synthase reductase .
autosomal recessive form of humeroradial synostosis  ( disease )  .
any congenital hydrocephalus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccdc88c gene .
growth delay  -  hydrocephaly  -  lung hypoplasia ,  also named game - friedman - paradice syndrome ,  is a rare developmental disorder described in 4 sibs so far and characterized by delayed fetal growth ,  hydrocephaly with patent aqueduct of sylvius ,  underdeveloped lungs and various other anomalies such as small jaw ,  intestinal malrotation ,  omphalocele ,  shortness of lower limbs ,  bowed tibias and foot deformities .
hydrocephaly - tall stature - joint laxity syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in two sisters and characterized by the presence of hydrocephalus  ( onset in infancy )  ,  tall stature ,  joint laxity ,  and thoracolumbar kyphosis .
an autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the pomt1 gene ,  encoding protein o - mannosyl - transferase 1 .
any hydrolethalus syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hyls1 gene .
a form of compensated hydrocephalus characterized clinically by a slowly progressive gait disorder  ( see gait disorders ,  neurologic )  ,  progressive intellectual decline ,  and urinary incontinence .
mckusick - kaufman syndrome is a very rare ,  genetic developmental disorder presenting in the neonatal period characterized by genitourinary malformations ,  polydactyly ,  and more rarely ,  congenital heart disease or gastrointestinal malformations .
non - immune hydrops fetalis  ( nihf )  ,  a form of hf ,  is a severe fetal condition defined as the excessive accumulation of fetal fluid within the fetal extravascular compartments and body cavities ,  and is the end - stage of a wide variety of disorders .
l - 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a primarily neurological form of 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria characterized by psychomotor retardation ,  cerebellar ataxia and variable macrocephaly or epilepsy .
3 hydroxyisobutyric aciduria is characterised by ketoacidotic episodes ,  cerebral anomalies and facial dysmorphism .
encephalopathy due to hydroxykynureninuria is characterised by psychomotor retardation and nonprogressive encephalopathy associated with urinary excretion of large amounts of kynurenine ,  3 - hydroxykynurenine ,  and xanthurenic acid .
seizures - intellectual disability due to hydroxylysinuria syndrome is characterised by hydroxylysinuria ,  myoclonic and motor seizures and intellectual deficit .
carbamoyl - phosphate synthetase 1 deficiency  ( cps1d )  is a rare and severe disorder of urea cycle metabolism most commonly characterized by either a neonatal - onset of severe hyperammonemia that occurs few days after birth and manifests with lethargy ,  vomiting ,  hypothermia ,  seizures ,  coma and death or a presentation outside the newborn period at any age with  ( sometimes )  milder symptoms of hyperammonemia .
n - acetylglutamate synthase  ( nags )  deficiency is a urea cycle disorder leading to hyperammonaemia .
hyperbetaalaninemia is a very rare metabolic condition .hyperbetaalaninemia refers to thebuild - upof protein building blocks ,  called beta amino acids ,  in the body .
rotor syndrome  ( rt )  is a benign ,  inherited liver disorder characterized by chronic ,  predominantly conjugated ,  nonhemolytic hyperbilirubinemia with normal liver histology .
dubin - johnson syndrome  ( djs )  is a benign ,  inherited liver disorder characterized clinically by chronic ,  predominantly conjugated ,  hyperbilirubinemia and histopathologically by black - brown pigment deposition in parenchymal liver cells .
any leydig cell hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lhcgr gene .
familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency is a rare genetic disorder is which a person lacks the enzyme lipoprotein lipase ,  a protein needed to break down fat molecules .
hyperlysinaemia is a lysine metabolism disorder characterised by elevated levels of lysine in the cerebrospinal fluid and blood .
hyperornithinemia - hyperammonemia - homocitrullinuria syndrome  ( triple h syndrome )  is a disorder of urea cycle metabolism characterized by either a neonatal - onset with manifestations of lethargy ,  poor feeding ,  vomiting and tachypnea or ,  more commonly ,  presentations in infancy ,  childhood or adulthood with chronic neurocognitive deficits ,  acute encephalopathy and / or chronic liver dysfunction .
juvenile paget disease is a very rare form of paget disease of the bone characterized by a general increase in bone turnover with increased bone resorption and deposition ,  resulting in cortical and trabecular thickening ,  and clinically presenting as progressive skeletal deformities ,  growth impairment ,  fractures ,  vertebral collapse ,  skull enlargement and sensorineural hearing loss .
hyperostosis corticalis generalisata ,  also known as van buchem disease ,  is a rare craniotubular hyperostosis characterized by hyperostosis of the skull ,  mandible ,  clavicles ,  ribs and diaphyses of the long bones ,  as well as the tubular bones of the hands and feet .
3 .5 mm )  from birth and associated with major hyperparathyroidism .
any hyperphosphatasia - intellectual disability syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pigv gene .
hyperprolinaemia type i is an inborn error of proline metabolism characterised by elevated levels of proline in the plasma and urine .
hyperprolinemia type 2 is an autosomal recessive proline metabolism disorder due to pyroline - 5 - carboxylate dehydrogenase deficiency .
hypertelorism - hypospadias - polysyndactyly syndrome is a very rare syndrome associating an acro - fronto - facio - nasal dysostosis with genitourinary anomalies .
hypertelorism - microtia - facial clefting syndrome ,  or hmc syndrome ,  is a very rare syndrome characterized by the combination of hypertelorism ,  cleft lip and palate and microtia .
cervical hypertrichosis peripheral neuropathy is a rare syndrome characterized by the association of congenital hypertrichosis in the anterior cervical region with peripheral sensory and motor neuropathy .
cantu syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by congenital hypertrichosis ,  osteochondrodysplasia ,  cardiomegaly ,  and dysmorphism .
addison disease  ( ad )  is a chronic and rare endocrine disorder due to autoimmune destruction of the adrenal cortex and resulting in a glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid deficiency .
autoimmune polyendocrinopathy type 1 ,  or apeced syndrome ,  is a genetic disease that manifests in childhood or early adolescence with a combination of chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis ,  hypoparathyroidism and autoimmune adrenal failure .
scurvy is a condition that develops in people who do not consume an adequate amount of vitamin c in their diet .
glycogen synthetase deficiency ,  or glycogen storage disease  ( gsd )  type 0 ,  is a genetically inherited anomaly of glycogen metabolism and a form of gsd characterized by fasting hypoglycemia .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of hypergonadotropic hypogonadism and cataracts with onset during adolescence .
woodhouse - sakati syndrome is a multisystemic disorder characterized by hypogonadism ,  alopecia ,  diabetes mellitus ,  intellectual deficit and extrapyramidal signs with choreoathetoid movements and dystonia .
this syndrome is characterized by primary hypergonadotropic hypogonadism and partial alopecia .
any bartter syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnj1 gene .
hypomandibular faciocranial dysostosis is a cranial malformation characterized by facial dysmorphism  ( proptosis ,  frontal bossing ,  midface and zygomatic arches hypoplasia ,  short nose with anteverted nostrils ,  microstomia with persistent buccopharyngeal membrane ,  severe hypoglossia with glossoptosis ,  severe mandibular hypoplasia ,  and low set ears )  associated with laryngeal hypoplasia and craniosynostosis .
sanjad - sakati syndrome  ( sss )  ,  also known as hypoparathyroidism  -  intellectual disability - dysmorphism ,  is a rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome ,  mainly occurring in the middle east and the arabian gulf countries ,  characterized by intrauterine growth restriction at birth ,  microcephaly ,  congenital hypoparathyroidism  ( that can cause hypocalcemic tetany or seizures in infancy )  ,  severe growth retardation ,  typical facial features  ( long narrow face ,  deep - set eyes ,  beaked nose ,  floppy and large ears ,  long philtrum ,  thin lips and micrognathia )  ,  and mild to moderate intellectual deficiency .
infantile hypophosphatasia  ( i - hpp )  is a very rare ,  severe form of hypophosphatasia characterized by infantile rickets without elevated serum alkaline phosphatase  ( alp )  activity and a wide range of clinical manifestations due to hypomineralization .
childhood - onset hypophosphatasia is a rare ,  mildform of hypophosphatasia characterized by onset after six months of age and widely variable clinical features from low bone mineral density for age ,  to unexplained fractures , skeletal deformities , and rickets with short stature and waddling gait .
any autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dmp1 gene .
hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria  ( hhrh )  is a hereditary renal phosphate - wasting disorder characterized by hypophosphatemia and hypercalciuria associated with rickets and / or osteomalacia .
any hypoplastic left heart syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gja1 gene .
hypospasdias b intellectual deficit ,  goldblatt type is a very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in three brothers of one south - african family ,  and characterized by hypospadias and intellectual deficit ,  in association with mirocephaly ,  craniofacial dysmorphism ,  joint laxity and beaked nails .
hypothalamic hamartomas  ( hh )  are rare ,  tumor - like malformations that occur during fetal development and are present at birth .
bamforth - lazarus syndrome is a very rare syndrome of congenital hypothyroidism characterized by thyroid dysgenesis  ( in most cases athyreosis )  ,  cleft palate and spiky hair ,  with or without choanal atresia ,  and bifid epiglottis .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the alox12b gene ,  encoding arachidonate 12 - lipoxygenase ,  12r - type .
any autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tgm1 gene .
harlequin ichthyosis  ( hi )  is the most severe variant of autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis  ( arci )  .
ichthyosis - alopecia - eclabion - ectropion - intellectual disability syndrome is an ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by severe generalized lamellar icthyosis at birth with alopecia ,  eclabium ,  ectropion and intellectual disability .
ichthyosis - hepatosplenomegaly - cerebellar degeneration syndrome is characterised by ichthyosis ,  hepatosplenomegaly and late - onset cerebellar ataxia .
ichthyosis - intellectual disability - dwarfism - renal impairment syndrome is characterised by nonbullous congenital ichthyosis ,  intellectual deficit ,  dwarfism and renal impairment .
iminoglycinuria is a metabolic disorder resulting from defective renal tube reabsorption of proline ,  hydroxyproline and glycine .
vici syndrome is a very rare and severe congenital multisystem disorder characterized by the principal features of agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  cataracts ,  oculocutaneous hypopigmentation ,  cardiomyopathy and combined immunodeficiency .
any immunodeficiency - centromeric instability - facial anomalies syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnmt3b gene .
schimke immuno - osseous dysplasia  ( siod )  is a multisystem disorder characterized by spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia and disproportionate short stature ,  facial dysmorphism ,  t - cell immunodeficiency ,  and glomerulonephritis with nephrotic syndrome .
a syndrome characterized by indifference to pain despite the ability to distinguish noxious from non - noxious stimuli .
male infertility due to large - headed multiflagellar polypoid spermatozoa is a male infertility due to sperm disorder characterized by the presence ,  in sperm ,  of a very high percentage of spermatozoa with enlarged head ,  irregular head shape ,  multiple flagella ,  and abnormal midpiece and acrosome .
multiple intestinal atresia is a rare form of intestinal atresia characterized by the presence of numerous atresic segments in the small bowel  ( duodenum )  or large bowel and leading to symptoms of intestinal obstruction: vomiting ,  abdominal bloating and inability to pass meconium in newborns .
neuronal intestinal pseudoobstruction is a form of chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction caused by a developmental failure of the enteric neurons to differentiate or migrate properly and manifests as a bowel obstruction .
idiopathic intracranial hypertension is a neurological disorder characterized by isolated increased intracranial pressure manifesting with recurrent and persistent headaches ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  progressive and transient obstruction of the visual field ,  papilledema .
benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis 1  ( bric1 )  is characterized by episodes of liver dysfunction called cholestasis ,  during which the liver cells have a reduced ability to release a digestive fluid called bile .
any baraitser - winter cerebrofrontofacial syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the actb gene .
isotretinoin - like syndrome is a phenocopy of the isotretinoin embryopathy .
isovaleric acidemia  ( iva )  is an autosomal recessively inherited organic aciduria characterized by a deficiency in isovaleryl - coa dehydrogenase ,  that has wide clinical variability and that can present in infancy with acute manifestations of vomiting ,  failure to thrive ,  seizures ,  lethargy ,  a characteristic ''sweaty feet'' odor ,  acute pancreatitis and mild to severe developmental delay or in childhood with metabolic acidosis  ( brought on by prolonged fasting ,  an increased intake of protein - rich food or infections )  and that can be fatal if not treated immediately .
atresia of small intestine is a special form of intestinal atresia with absence of mesentery ,  which is most likely due to an intrauterine intestinal vascular accident .
stromme syndrome is an autosomal recessive congenital disorder affecting multiple systems with features of a ciliopathy .
combined immunodeficiency due to dedicator of cytokinesis 8 protein  ( dock8 )  deficiency is a form of t and b cell immunodeficiency characterized by recurrent cutaneous viral infections ,  susceptibility to cancer and elevated serum levels of immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  .
johanson - blizzard syndrome  ( jbs )  is a multiple congenital anomaly characterized by exocrine pancreatic insufficiency ,  hypoplasia / aplasia of the nasal alae ,  hypodontia ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  growth retardation ,  anal and urogenital malformations ,  and variable intellectual disability .
joubert syndrome with oculorenal defect is a rare subtype of joubert syndrome and related disorders  ( jsrd )  characterized by the neurological features of js associated with both renal and ocular disease .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prokr2 gene .
kapur - toriello syndrome is an extremely rare syndrome characterized by facial dysmorphism ,  severe intellectual deficiency ,  cardiac and intestinal anomalies ,  and growth retardation .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnai1 gene .
an autosomal recessive form of kenny - caffey syndrome due to mutation ( s )  in the tbce gene ,  encoding tubulin - specific chaperone e . this condition is characterized by hypoparathyroidism with hypocalcemia ,  marked growth retardation ,  craniofacial anomalies ,  absent diploic space in the skull ,  cortical thickening of long bones with medullary stenosis ,  and small hands and feet .
hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma ,  gamborg - nielsen type is characterised by the presence of diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma without associated symptoms .
papillon - lefevre syndrome  ( pls )  is a rare ectodermal dysplasia characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma associated with early - onset periodontitis .
haim - munk syndrome  ( hms )  is characterized by palmoplantar hyperkeratosis ,  severe early - onset periodontitis ,  onychogryposis ,  pes planus ,  arachnodactyly and acroosteolysis .
succinyl - coa:3 - ketoacid coa transferase deficiency  ( scotd )  is a defect in ketone body utilization characterized by severe ,  potentially fatal intermittent episodes of ketoacidosis .
richards - rundle syndrome is an extremely rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive spinocerebellar ataxia ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism associated with additional neurological manifestations  ( such as peripheral muscle wasting ,  nystagmus ,  intellectual disability or dementia )  and ketoaciduria .
keutel syndrome is characterised by diffuse cartilage calcification ,  brachytelephalangism ,  peripheral pulmonary artery stenoses and facial dysmorphism .
lethal kniest - like dysplasia is a severe lethal skeletal dysplasia .
krabbe disease is a lysosomal disorder that affects the white matter of the central and peripheral nervous systems .
metabolic myopathy due to lactate transporter defect is a rare metabolic myopathy characterized by muscle cramping and / or stiffness after exercise  ( especially during heat exposure )  ,  post - exertional rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria ,  and elevation of serum creatine kinase .
pyruvate dehydrogenase e2 deficiency is a very rare form of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  characterized by variable lactic acidosis and neurological dysfunction ,  mainly appearing during childhood .
pyruvate dehydrogenase e3 - binding protein deficiency is a rare mild form of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  characterized by variable lactic acidosis and neurological dysfunction .
fatal infantile lactic acidosis with methylmalonic aciduria is a rare neurometabolic disease characterized by infantile onset of severe encephalomyopathy ,  lactic acidosis and elevated methylmalonic acid urinary excretion .
lambert syndrome is a very rare syndrome described in four sibs of one french family and characterized by branchial dysplasia  ( malar hypoplasia ,  macrostomia ,  preauricular tags and meatal atresia )  ,  club feet ,  inguinal herniae and cholestasis due to paucity of interlobular bile ducts and intellectual deficit .
landau - kleffner syndrome  ( lks )  is a rare neurological syndrome characterized by the sudden or gradual development of aphasia  ( the inability to understand or express language )  and recurrent seizures  ( epilepsy )  .
larsen - like syndrome ,  b3gat3 type is a rare ,  genetic ,  primary bone dysplasia characterized by laxity ,  dislocations and contractures of the joints ,  short stature ,  foot deformities  ( e .g .
larsen - like syndrome ,  lethal type ,  is characterised by multiple joint dislocation and respiratory insufficiency due to tracheomalacia and / or lung hypoplasia .
loc syndrome is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  characterized by an altered cry in the neonatal period and by aberrant production of granulation tissue in particular affecting the upper airway tract ,  conjunctiva and periungual / subungual sites .
laurence - moon syndrome  ( lms )  is a very rare genetic multisystemic disorder characterized by pituitary dysfunction ,  ataxia ,  peripheral neuropathy ,  spastic paraplegia ,  and chorioretinal dystrophy .
familial lcat  ( lecithin - cholesterol acyltransferase )  deficiency  ( fld )  is a form of lecithin - cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency  ( lcat )  characterized clinically by corneal opacities ,  hemolytic anemia ,  and renal failure ,  and biochemically by severely decreased hdl cholesterol and complete deficiency of the lcat enzyme .
absence deformity of leg b cataract is a very rare syndromic limb malformation described in two distantly related boys .
leprechaunism is a congenital form of extreme insulin resistance  ( a group of syndromes that also includes rabson - mensenhall syndrome ,  type a insulin - resistance syndrome ,  and acquired type b insulin - resistance syndrome )  characterized by intrauterine and mainly postnatal severe growth retardation .
any leprosy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tlr2 gene .
a multifocal ,  multisystem form of langerhans - cell histiocytosis .
3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaric aciduria  ( 3hmg )  is an organic aciduria ,  due to deficiency of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaryl - coa - lyase  ( a key enzyme in ketogenesis and leucine metabolism )  usually presenting in infancy with episodes of metabolic decompensation triggered by periods of fasting or infections ,  which when left untreated are life - threatening and may lead to neurological sequelae .
leukomelanoderma - infantilism - intellectual disability - hypodontia - hypotrichosis syndrome is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by congenital generalized melanoleukoderma ,  hypodontia and hypotrichosis associated with infantilism ,  intellectual disability and growth delay .
lichstenstein syndrome is characterised by frequent infections associated with osteoporosis ,  a tendency for fractures and osseous anomalies .
intellectual disability - spasticity - ectrodactyly syndrome is a rare intellectual disability syndrome characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  spastic paraplegia  ( with wasting of the lower limbs )  and distal transverse defects of the limbs  ( e .g .
the distal limb deficiencies - micrognathia syndrome is characterized by the combination of symmetric severe distal limb reduction deficiencies affecting all four limbs  ( oligodactyly )  ,  microretrognathia ,  and microstomia with or without cleft palate .
a rare disorder caused by mutation in the lmf1 gene resulting in combined lipase deficiency with concomitant hypertriglyceridemia and associated disorders .
chylomicron retention disease  ( crd )  is a type of familial hypocholesterolemia characterized by malnutrition ,  failure to thrive ,  growth failure ,  vitamin e deficiency and hepatic ,  neurologic and ophthalmologic complications .
pyruvate dehydrogenase e3 deficiency is a very rare subtype of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  characterized by either early - onset lactic acidosis and delayed development ,  later - onset neurological dysfunction or liver disease .
lipoid proteinosis  ( lp )  is a rare genodermatosis characterized clinically by mucocutaneous lesions ,  hoarseness developing in early childhood and ,  at times ,  neurological complications .
a rare syndrome caused by deletion of genetic material in the short arm of chromosome 17 .
dahlberg - borer - newcomer syndrome is a very rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome ,  described in 2 adult brothers ,  characterized by the association of hypoparathyroidism ,  nephropathy ,  congenital lymphedema ,  mitral valve prolapse and brachytelephalangy .
interstitial pneumonia characterized by the presence of bibasilar pulmonary interstitial infiltrates composed of lymphocytes and plasma cells .
prominent glabella b microcephaly b hypogenitalism is a very rare syndrome described in two sibs and characterized by prenatal onset of growth deficiency ,  microcephaly ,  hypoplastic genitalia ,  and birth onset of convulsions .
macrosomia - microphthalmia - cleft palate syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by early macrosomia ,  bilateral severe microphthalmia and a protuberant abdomen with hepatomegaly .
familial primary hypomagnesemia with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis with severe ocular involvement  ( fhhncoi )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  ,  characterized by excessive magnesium and calcium renal wasting ,  bilateral nephrocalcinosis ,  progressive renal failure and severe ocular abnormalities .
severe early childhood onset retinal dystrophy  ( secord )  is an inherited retinal dystrophy ,  characterized by a severe congenital night blindness ,  progressive retinal dystrophy and nystagmus .
familial primary hypomagnesemia with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis without severe ocular involvement  ( fhhn )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  ,  characterized by recurrent urinary tract infections ,  nephrolithiasis ,  bilateral nephrocalcinosis ,  renal magnesium  ( mg )  wasting ,  hypercalciuria and kidney failure .
mal de melada  ( mdm )  is a diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma initially reported from of the island of meleda characterized by symmetric palmoplantar hyperkeratosis that progressively extends to the dorsal surfaces of hands and feet  ( transgradiens )  .
any 3mc syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the colec10 gene .
malonic aciduria is a metabolic disorder caused by deficiency of malonyl - coa decarboxylase  ( mcd )  .
a rare ,  autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the lmna gene .
any treacher - collins syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the polr1c gene .
alpha - mannosidosis is an inherited lysosomal storage disorder characterized by immune deficiency ,  facial and skeletal abnormalities ,  hearing impairment ,  and intellectual deficit .
beta - mannosidosis is a very rare lysosomal storage disease characterized by developmental delay of varying severity and hearing loss ,  but that can manifest a wide phenotypic heterogeneity .
an autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the bckdha ,  bckdhb ,  dbt ,  and dld genes .
marden - walker syndrome  ( mws )  is a malformation syndrome characterized by multiple joint contractures  ( arthrogryposis )  ,  a mask - like face with blepharophimosis ,  micrognathia ,  high - arched or cleft palate ,  low - set ears ,  decreased muscular bulk ,  kyphoscoliosis and arachnodactyly .
this syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  marfanoid habitus ,  microcephaly ,  and glomerulonephritis .
marfanoid habitus b intellectual deficit ,  autosomal recessive is a very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in four sibs and characterized by intellectual deficit ,  flat face and some skeletelal features of marfan syndrome such as tall stature ,  dolichostenomelia ,  arm span larger than height ,  arachnodactyly of hands and feet ,  little subcutaneous fat ,  muscle hypotonia and intellectual deficit .
marinesco - sjogren syndrome  ( mss )  belongs to the group of autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxias .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 21 is a complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an onset in adolescence or adulthood of slowly progressive spastic paraparesis associated with the additional manifestations of apraxia ,  cognitive and speech decline  ( leading to dementia and akinetic mutism in some cases )  ,  personality disturbances and extrapyramidal  ( e .g .
hennekam - beemer syndrome is characterized by the association of skin mastocytosis  ( appearing as diffuse pigmentation )  ,  short stature ,  microcephaly ,  conductive hearing loss ,  and dysmorphic features .
a rare ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by facial dysmorphsim  ( prominent superciliary arcs ,  synophrys ,  strabismus ,  large ,  anteverted ears ,  large nose ,  malocclusion of teeth )  ,  delayed psychomotor development ,  intellectual disability and congenital heart defects  ( e .g .
any meckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mks1 gene .
autosomal recessive form of familial mediterranean fever .
thiamine - responsive megaloblastic anemia  ( trma )  is characterized by a triad of megaloblastic anemia ,  non - type i diabetes mellitus ,  and sensorineural deafness .
megalocornea - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare intellectual disability syndrome most commonly characterized by megalocornea ,  congenital hypotonia ,  varying degrees of intellectual disability ,  psychomotor / developmental delay ,  seizures ,  and mild facial dysmorphism  ( including round face ,  frontal bossing ,  antimongoloid slant of the eyes ,  epicanthal folds ,  large low set ears ,  broad nasal base ,  anteverted nostrils ,  and long upper lip )  .
neurocutaneous melanocytosis  ( ncm )  is a rare congenital neurological disorder characterized by abnormal aggregations of nevomelanocytes within the central nervous system  ( leptomeningeal melanocytosis )  associated with large or giant congenital melanocytic nevi  ( cmn )  .
frank - ter haar syndrome  ( formerly considered as an autosomal recessive form of melnick - needles syndrome )  is defined by megalocornea ,  multiple skeletal anomalies ,  characteristic facial dysmorphism  ( wide fontanels ,  prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  prominent eyes ,  full cheeks and micrognathia )  and developmental delay .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prss12 gene .
intellectual disability - dysmorphism - hypogonadism - diabetes mellitus syndrome is characterised by moderate intellectual deficit ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( including broad nose with coloboma of the alea nasi ,  deep - set eyes ,  prognathism )  ,  hypergonadotropic hypogonadism ,  eunuchoid habitus ,  type 1 diabetes mellitus ,  and epilepsy .
mietens syndrome is a very rare syndrome consisting of corneal opacity ,  nystagmus ,  strabismus ,  flexion contracture of the elbows with dislocation of the head of the radius and abnormally short ulnae and radii .
ohdo blepharophimosis syndrome  ( obs )  is a multiple congenital malformation syndrome characterized by blepharophimosis ,  ptosis ,  dental hypoplasia ,  hearing impairment and intellectual disability .
intellectual disability ,  buenos - aires type is a rare intellectual disability syndrome characterized by growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  characteristic facial features  ( including narrow forehead ,  bushy eyebrows ,  hypertelorism ,  small ,  downward - slanting palpebral fissures with blepharoptosis ,  malformed and low - set ears ,  broad straight nose ,  thin upper lip ,  and a wide ,  tented mouth )  ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  speech disorder ,  and multiple organ malformations  ( e .g .
langer mesomelic dysplasia  ( lmd )  is characterized by severe disproportionate short stature with mesomelic and rhizomelic shortening of the upper and lower limbs .
mesomelic dwarfism - cleft palate - camptodactyly syndrome is characterised by mesomelic shortening and bowing of the limbs ,  camptodactyly ,  skin dimpling and cleft palate with retrognathia and mandibular hypoplasia .
metachromatic leukodystrophy is an inherited condition characterized by the accumulation of fats called sulfatides in cells ,  especially cells of the nervous system .
metaphyseal acroscyphodysplasia is an extremely rare form of metaphyseal dysplasia characterized by the distinctive radiological sign of cone - shaped upper tibial and lower femoral epiphyses embedded in large cup - shaped metaphyses ,  associated with short stature and micromelia .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia  ( semd )  ,  sedaghatian type is a neonatal lethal form of spondylometaphyseal dysplasia characterized by severe metaphyseal chondrodysplasia ,  mild rhizomelic shortness of the upper limbs ,  and mild platyspondyly .
metaphyseal chondrodysplasia ,  kaitila type is a rare multiple metaphyseal dysplasia disease characterized by disproportionate short stature ,  short limbs and digits ,  tracheobronchial malacia and progressive thoracolumbar scoliosis .
cartilage - hair hypoplasia is a disease affecting the bone metaphyses causing small stature from birth .
metaphyseal dysostosis - intellectual disability - conductive deafness syndrome is characterised by metaphyseal dysplasia ,  short - limb dwarfism ,  mild intellectual deficit and conductive hearing loss ,  associated with repeated episodes of otitis media in childhood .
neurodegeneration due to 3 - hydroxyisobutyryl - coa hydrolase deficiency is characterised by delayed motor development ,  hypotonia and progressive neurodegeneration .
any methemoglobinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cyb5a gene .
hypermethioninemia due to methionine adenosyltransferase deficiency is a very rare metabolic disorder resulting in isolated hepatic hypermethioninemia that is usually benign due to partial inactivation of enzyme activity .
methylcobalamin deficiency cbl g type is a rare condition that occurs when the body is unable to process certain amino acids  ( building blocks of protein )  properly .
3 - methylglutaconic aciduria  ( 3 - mga )  type i is an inborn error of leucine metabolism with a variable clinical phenotype ranging from mildly delayed speech to psychomotor retardation ,  coma ,  failure to thrive ,  metabolic acidosis and dystonia .
3 - methylglutaconic aciduria  ( 3 - mga )  type iv ,  or unclassified 3 - mga ,  is a clinically heterogeneous disorder characterised by increased 3 - methylglutaconic acid excretion in individuals that cannot be classified as having one of the other forms of 3 - mga  ( 3 - mga i ,  ii or iii )  .
vitamin b12 - unresponsive methylmalonic acidemia is an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by recurrent ketoacidotic crises or transient vomiting ,  dehydration ,  hypotonia and intellectual deficit ,  which does not respond to administration of vitamin b12 .
an autosomal recessive form of methylmalonic aciduria ,  caused by mutation ( s )  in the mmaa gene ,  encoding mmaa protein .
an autosomal recessive form of methylmalonic aciduria ,  caused by mutation ( s )  in the mmab gene ,  encoding cob ( i ) yrinic acid a , c - diamide adenosyltransferase ,  mitochondrial .
methylmalonic acidemia due to methylmalonyl - coa epimerase deficiency is a rare inborn error of metabolism disease characterized by mild to moderate ,  persistent elevation of methylmalonic acid in plasma ,  urine and cerebrospinal fluid .
microcephalic primordial dwarfism ,  toriello type is characterised by growth retardation with prenatal onset ,  cataracts ,  microcephaly ,  intellectual deficit ,  immune deficiency ,  delayed ossification and enamel hypoplasia .
any autosomal recessive primary microcephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mcph1 gene .
microcephaly - cardiomyopathy syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  microcephaly and dilated cardiomyopathy .
say - barber - miller syndrome is characterised by the association of unusual facial features ,  microcephaly ,  developmental delay ,  and severe postnatal growth retardation .
microcephaly - cervical spine fusion anomalies syndrome is characterized by microcephaly ,  facial dysmorphism  ( beaked nose ,  low - set ears ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  micrognathia )  ,  mild intellectual deficit ,  short stature ,  and cervical spine fusion anomalies producing spinal cord compression .
jawad syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by congenital microcephaly wih facial dysmorphism  ( sloping forehead ,  prominent nose ,  mild retrognathia )  ,  moderate to severe ,  non - progressive intellectual disability and symmetrical digital malformations of variable degree ,  including brachydactyly of the fifth fingers with single flexion crease ,  clinodactyly ,  syndactyly ,  polydactyly and hallux valgus .
nijmegen breakage syndrome is a rare genetic disease presenting at birth with microcephaly ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  becoming more noticeable with age ,  growth delay ,  and later - onset complications such as malignancies and infections .
an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutation ( s )  in the tubgcp6 gene ,  encoding gamma - tubulin complex component 6 .
congenital intrauterine infection - like syndrome is characterised by the presence of microcephaly and intracranial calcifications at birth accompanied by neurological delay ,  seizures and a clinical course similar to that seen in patients after intrauterine infection with toxoplasma gondii ,  rubella ,  cytomegalovirus ,  herpes simplex  ( so - called torch syndrome )  ,  or other agents ,  despite repeated tests revealing the absence of any known infectious agent .
galloway syndrome is characterized by the association of nephrotic syndrome and central nervous system anomalies .
a rare congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of an abnormally small colon .
any desbuquois dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cant1 gene .
a microphthalmia that has material basis in variation in the chromosomal region 14q32 .
microvillus inclusion disease  ( mvid )  is a very rare ,  severe ,  malabsorbative syndrome characterized clinically by protracted or intractable neonatal secretory diarrhea and histologically by inclusion bodies on the intestinal epithelium .
any mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dguok gene .
myopathy caused by mitochondrial abnormalities .
isolated complex i deficiency is a rare inborn error of metabolism due to mutations in nuclear genes encoding subunits or assembly factors of the human mitochondrial complex i  ( nadh: ubiquinone oxidoreductase )  and is characterized by a wide range of manifestations including marked and often fatal lactic acidosis ,  cardiomyopathy ,  leukoencephalopathy ,  pure myopathy and hepatopathy with tubulopathy .
complex ii deficiency is a mitochondrial disease .
oral - facial - digital  ( ofd )  type 2 is characterized by hand and feet deformities ,  facial deformities ,  midline cleft of the upper lip and tongue hamartomas .
peripheral motor neuropathy - dysautonomia syndrome is characterised by distal ,  slowly progressive muscular weakness ,  childhood - onset amyotrophy ,  autonomic dysfunction characterized by profuse sweating ,  distal cyanosis related to cold weather ,  orthostatic hypotension ,  and esophageal achalasia .
mucolipidosis ii  ( mlii )  is a slowly progressive lysosomal disorder characterized by growth retardation ,  skeletal abnormalities ,  facial dysmorphism ,  stiff skin ,  developmental delay and cardiomegaly .
mucolipidosis iii gamma  ( ml 3 gamma )  is a very rare lysosomal disease ,  that has most often been observed in the middle east ,  characterized by a progressive slowing of the growth rate in early childhood ;  stiffness and pain in shoulders ,  hips ,  and finger joints ;  a gradual ,  mild coarsening of facial features ;  and by a slower progression ,  milder clinical course and longer life expectancy than that seen in mucolipidosis ii and mucolipidosis iii alpha / beta .
mucolipidosis type iv  ( ml iv )  is a lysosomal storage disease characterised clinically by psychomotor retardation and visual abnormalities including corneal clouding ,  retinal degeneration ,  or strabismus .
a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme heparan sulfate sulfatase .
a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme n - acetyl - alpha - d - glucosaminidase .
a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme acetyl - coa:alpha - glucosaminide acetyltransferase .
a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme n - acetylglucosamine - 6 - sulfatase .
a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme galactosamine - 6 - sulfatase .
a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme beta galactosidase .
mucopolysaccharidosis type 6  ( mps 6 )  is a lysosomal storage disease with progressive multisystem involvement ,  associated with a deficiency of arylsulfatase b  ( asb )  leading to the accumulation of dermatan sulfate .
mucopolysaccharidosis type vii  ( mps vii )  is a very rare lysosomal storage disease belonging to the group of mucopolysaccharidoses .
mulibrey nanism  ( mul )  is a prenatal onset growth disorder with multiorgan manifestations .
biotinidase deficiency is a late - onset form of multiple carboxylase deficiency ,  an inborn error of biotin metabolism that ,  if untreated ,  is characterized by seizures ,  breathing difficulties ,  hypotonia ,  skin rash ,  alopecia ,  hearing loss and delayed development .
holocarboxylase synthetase  ( hcs )  deficiency is a life - threatening early - onset form of multiple carboxylase deficiency ,  an inborn error of biotin metabolism ,  that ,  if untreated ,  is characterized by vomiting ,  tachypnea ,  irritability ,  lethargy ,  exfoliative dermatitis ,  and seizures that can worsen to coma .
an autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the pomgnt1 gene .
multiple pterygium syndrome lethal type is a very rare genetic condition affecting the skin ,  muscles and skeleton .
proximal spinal muscular atrophy type 1  ( sma1 )  is a severe infantile form of proximal spinal muscular atrophy characterized by severe and progressive muscle weakness and hypotonia resulting from the degeneration and loss of the lower motor neurons in the spinal cord and the brain stem nuclei .
lethal congenital contracture syndrome type 1 is a rare ,  genetic arthrogryposis syndrome characterized by total fetal akinesia  ( detectable since the 13th week of gestation )  accompanied by hydrops ,  micrognathia ,  pulmonary hypoplasia ,  pterygia and multiple joint contractures  ( usually flexion contractures in the elbows and extension in the knees )  ,  leading invariably to death before the 32nd week of gestation .
intellectual disability - myopathy - short stature - endocrine defect syndrome is a rare congenital myopathy syndrome characterized by nonprogressive myopathy  ( manifesting with mild facial and generalized weakness ,  bilateral ptosis ,  and severe lumbar lordosis )  ,  severe intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  and sexual infantilism  ( due to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism )  .
proximal spinal muscular atrophy type 3  ( sma3 )  is a relatively mild form of proximal spinal muscular atrophy characterized by muscle weakness and hypotonia resulting from the degeneration and loss of the lower motor neurons in the spinal cord and the brain stem nuclei .
proximal spinal muscular atrophy type 2  ( sma2 )  is a chronic infantile form of proximal spinal muscular atrophy characterized by muscle weakness and hypotonia resulting from the degeneration and loss of the lower motor neurons in the spinal cord and the brain stem nuclei .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2a  ( lgmd2a )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a variable age of onset of progressive ,  typically symmetrical and selective weakness and atrophy of proximal shoulder -  and pelvic - girdle muscles  ( gluteus maximus ,  thigh adductors ,  and muscles of the posterior compartment of the limbs are most commonly affected )  without cardiac or facial involvement .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2b  ( lgmd2b )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by an onset in late adolescence or early adulthood of slowly progressive ,  proximal weakness and atrophy of shoulder and pelvic girdle muscles .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2c  ( lgmd2c )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a childhood onset of progressive shoulder and pelvic girdle muscle weakness and atrophy frequently associated with calf hypertrophy ,  diaphragmatic weakness ,  and / or variable cardiac abnormalities .
fukuyama type muscular dystrophy  ( fcmd )  is a congenital progressive muscular dystrophy characterized by brain malformation  ( cobblestone lissencephaly )  ,  dystrophic changes in skeletal muscle ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy and motor impairment .
congenital muscular dystrophy - infantile cataract - hypogonadism syndrome is characterized by congenital muscular dystrophy ,  infantile cataract and hypogonadism .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2h  ( lgmd2h )  is a mild subtype of autosomal recessive limb girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by slowly progressive proximal muscle weakness and wasting of the pelvic and shoulder girdles with onset that usually occurs during the second or third decade of life .
miyoshi myopathy  ( mm )  is a distal myopathy ,  characterized by weakness in the distal lower extremity posterior compartment  ( gastrocnemius and soleus muscles )  and associated with difficulties in standing on tip toes .
myasthenia gravis  ( mg )  is a rare ,  clinically heterogeneous ,  autoimmune disorder of the neuromuscular junction characterized by fatigable weakness of voluntary muscles .
congenital myasthenic syndrome caused by mutation ( s )  in the chat gene ,  encoding choline o - acetyltransferase .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dok7 gene .
classical mycosis fungoides is the most common type of mycosis fungoides  ( mf )  ,  a form of cutaneous t - cell lymphoma ,  and is characterized by slow progression from patches to more infiltrated plaques and eventually to tumors .
myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia is a myeloproliferative disease with annual incidence of approximately 1 case per 100 , 000 individuals and age at diagnosis around 60  ( an increased prevalence is noted in ashkenazi jews )  .
a bone marrow - based plasma cell neoplasm characterized by a serum monoclonal protein and skeletal destruction with osteolytic lesions ,  pathological fractures ,  bone pain ,  hypercalcemia ,  and anemia .
juvenile myoclonic epilepsy is the most common hereditary idiopathic generalized epilepsy syndrome and is characterized by myoclonic jerks of the upper limbs on awakening ,  generalized tonic - clonic seizures manifesting during adolescence and triggered by sleep deprivation ,  alcohol intake ,  and cognitive activities ,  and typical absence seizures  ( 30% of cases )  .
lafora disease  ( ld )  is a rare ,  inherited ,  severe ,  progressive myoclonic epilepsy characterized by myoclonus and / or generalized seizures ,  visual hallucinations  ( partial occipital seizures )  ,  and progressive neurological decline .
unverricht - lundborg disease  ( uld )  is a rare progressive myoclonic epilepsy disorder characterized by action -  and stimulus - sensitive myoclonus ,  and tonic - clonic seizures with ataxia ,  but with only a mild cognitive decline over time .
action myoclonus - renal failure syndrome  ( amrf )  is a rare epilepsy syndrome characterized by progressive myoclonus epilepsy in association with primary glomerular disease .
carey - fineman - ziter  ( cfz )  syndrome is a rare condition characterized by the association of hypotonia ,  moebius sequence  ( bilateral congenital facial palsy with impairment of ocular abduction )  ,  pierre - robin sequence  ( micrognathia ,  glossoptosis ,  and high - arched or cleft palate )  ,  unusual face ,  and growth delay .
the myopathic form of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii  ( cpt ii )  deficiency ,  an inherited metabolic disorder that affects mitochondrial oxidation of long chain fatty acids  ( lcfa )  ,  is the most common and the least severe form of cpt ii deficiency .
carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1a  ( cpt - 1a )  deficiency is an inborn error of metabolism that affects mitochondrial oxidation of long chain fatty acids  ( lcfa )  in the liver and kidneys ,  and is characterized by recurrent attacks of fasting - induced hypoketotic hypoglycemia and risk of liver failure .
aconitase deficiency is characterised by myopathy with severe exercise intolerance and deficiencies of skeletal muscle succinate dehydrogenase and aconitase .
any centronuclear myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bin1 gene .
myotonia congenita is characterised by slow muscle relaxation associated with hyperexcitation of the muscle fibres .
a rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the tpm3 ,  acta1 ,  ryr1 and sepn1 genes .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the ryr1 gene ,  encoding ryanodine receptor 1 .
myosclerosis is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - dystrophic myopathy characterized by early ,  diffuse ,  progressive muscle and joint contractures that result in severe limitation of movement of axial ,  proximal ,  and distal joints ,  walking difficulties in early childhood and toe walking .
autosomal recessive form of myotonia congenita .
schwartz - jampel syndrome  ( sjs )  is characterised by myotonia and osteoarticular abnormalities .
a condition characterized by severe hypothyroidism that is caused by autoimmune thyroid gland disorders ,  surgical reduction of thyroid tissue ,  radiation exposure ,  and viral infections .
keipert syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism ,  broad and high nasal bridge ,  depressed nasal ridge ,  short columella ,  underdeveloped maxilla ,  and prominent cupid - bow upper lip vermillion )  ,  mild to severe congenital sensorineural hearing loss ,  and skeletal abnormalities consisting of brachytelephalangy and broad thumbs and halluces with large ,  rounded epiphyses .
nathalie syndrome is characterised by deafness ,  cataract ,  muscular atrophy ,  skeletal abnormalities ,  growth retardation ,  underdeveloped secondary sexual characteristics ,  and electrocardiographic abnormalities .
bailey - bloch congenital myopathy is a neuromuscular disorder characterized by weakness ,  arthrogryposis ,  kyphoscoliosis ,  short stature ,  cleft palate ,  ptosis and susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia during anesthesia .
leigh syndrome or subacute necrotizing encephalomyelopathy is a progressive neurological disease defined by specific neuropathological features associating brainstem and basal ganglia lesions .
nail - patella - like renal disease is a severe nephropathy characterised by renal dysfunction ,  proteinuria ,  oedema and microscopic haematuria .
an autosomal recessive inherited myopathy caused by mutations in the neb gene .
atelosteogenesis ii is a lethal perinatal bone dysplasia characterized by limb shortening ,  normal sized skull with cleft palate ,  hitchhiker thumbs ,  distinctive facial dysmorphism and radiographic skeletal features ,  caused by mutations in the diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter gene .
progressive tubulointerstitial nephritis inherited in an autosomal recessive manner .
nephropathy - deafness - hyperparathyroidism syndrome is characterised by renal failure without haematuria ,  parathyroid hyperplasia and sensorineural deafness .
nephrosis - deafness - urinary tract - digital malformations syndrome is characterised by anomalies of the urinary tract ,  thumbs and big toes ,  deafness and nephrosis .
congenital nephrotic syndrome ,  finnish type is characterised by protein loss beginning during foetal life .
nephrotic syndrome within the first three motnhs of life ,  characterized initially by increased mesangial matrix ,  with or without hypertrophy and hyperplasia of podocytes ,  and eventual glomerular sclerosis .
any hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abcc8 gene .
netherton syndrome  ( ns )  is a skin disorder characterized by congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma  ( cie )  ,  a distinctive hair shaft defect  ( trichorrhexis invaginata ;  ti )  and atopic manifestations .
any neu - laxova syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the phgdh gene .
galactosialidosis is a lysosomal storage disease characterized by coarse facial features ,  macular ''cherry red spot'' ,  and dysostosis multiplex .
sialidosis type 2  ( st - 2 )  is a rare lysosomal storage disease ,  and the severe ,  early onset form of sialidosis characterized by a progressively severe mucopolysaccharidosis - like phenotype  ( coarse facies ,  dysostosis multiplex ,  hepatosplenomegaly )  ,  macular cherry - red spots as well as psychomotor and developmental delay .
infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy / atypical neuroaxonal dystrophy  ( inad / atypical nad )  is a type of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  characterized by psychomotor delay and regression ,  increasing neurological involvement with symmetrical pyramidal tract signs and spastic tetraplegia .
neurofaciodigitorenal syndrome is a rare ,  multiple developmental anomalies syndrome characterized by neurological abnormalities  ( including megalencephaly ,  hypotonia ,  intellectual disability ,  abnormal eeg )  ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( high prominent forehead ,  grooved nasal tip ,  ptosis ,  ear anomalies )  and acrorenal defects  ( such as triphalangism ,  broad halluces ,  unilateral renal agenesis )  .
elejalde syndrome  ( es )  is characterized by silvery to leaden hair ,  bronze skin colour in sun - exposed areas and severe neurological impairment .
a condition associated with mutation ( s )  in the ppt1 gene ,  encoding palmitoyl - protein thioesterase 1 .
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 5  ( cln5 - ncl )  is a rare condition that affects the nervous system .
hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy ,  type 4  ( hsan4 )  is an inherited disorder characterized by anhidrosis ,  insensitivity to pain ,  self - mutilating behavior and episodes of fever .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of an axonal sensory and autonomic neuropathy with spastic paraplegia .
giant axonal neuropathy  ( gan )  is a degenerative disorder that is characterised by a progressive motor and sensitive peripheral and central nervous system neuropathy .
a hereditary sensory neuropathy characterized by late onset of sensory ataxia without ulcerating acropathy or autonomic abnormalities .
solitary or multiple ,  slightly raised ,  pigmented lesions with irregular borders ,  usually measuring more than 0 .6cm in greatest dimension .
niemann - pick disease type a is a very severe subtype of niemann - pick disease ,  an autosomal recessive lysosomal disease ,  and is characterized clinically by onset in infancy or early childhood with failure to thrive ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  and rapidly progressive neurodegenerative disorders .
type c niemann - pick disease associated with a mutation in the gene npc1 ,  encoding niemann - pick c1 protein .
any congenital stationary night blindness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grm6 gene .
any mosaic variegated aneuploidy syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bub1b gene .
lissencephaly syndrome ,  norman - roberts type is characterised by the association of lissencephaly type i with craniofacial anomalies  ( severe microcephaly ,  a low sloping forehead ,  a broad and prominent nasal bridge and widely set eyes )  and postnatal growth retardation .
a benign lymphatic neoplasm usually arising from the neck and characterized by cystic dilation of the lymphatic vessels .
hypoventilation syndrome in very obese persons with excessive adipose tissue around the abdomen and diaphragm is characterized by diminished to absent ventilatory chemoresponsiveness ;  chronic hypoxia ;  hypercapnia ;  polycythemia ;  and long periods of sleep during day and night  ( hypersomnolence )  .
ocular motor apraxia ,  cogan type is characterised by impairment of voluntary horizontal eye movements and compensatory head thrust .
oculocerebral hypopigmentation syndrome ,  cross type is a rare congenital syndrome characterized by cutaneous and ocular hypopigmentation ,  various ocular anomalies  ( e .g .
autosomal recessive form of oculodentodigital dysplasia .
oculopalatocerebral syndrome is characterised by the association of four anomalies: intellectual deficit ,  microcephaly ,  palate anomalies and ocular abnormalities .
any 3mc syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the masp1 gene .
oculotrichodysplasia is characterised by retinitis pigmentosa ,  trichodysplasia ,  dental anomalies ,  and onychodysplasia .
odonto - onycho - dermal dysplasia is a form of ectodermal dysplasia characterised by hyperkeratosis and hyperhidrosis of the palms and soles ,  atrophic malar patches ,  hypodontia ,  conical teeth ,  onychodysplasia ,  and dry and sparse hair .
cloacal exstrophy  ( ec )  is a major birth defect representing the severe end of the spectrum of the exstrophy - epispadias complex  ( eec )  characterized by omphalocele ,  exstrophy ,  imperforate anus and spinal defects  ( also referred to as the oeis complex )  ,  often associated with other malformations .
any oguchi disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sag gene .
oliver syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by intellectual deficit ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  and epilepsy .
autosomal recessive form of omodysplasia .
lethal omphalocele - cleft palate syndrome is characterized by the association of omphalocele and cleft palate .
any autosomal recessive progressive external ophthalmoplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the polg gene .
opsismodysplasia is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by congenital dwarfism and facial dysmorphism .
3 - methylglutaconic aciduria type iii  ( mga iii )  is an organic aciduria characterised by the association of optic atrophy and choreoathetosis with 3 - methylglutaconic aciduria .
ichthyosis - oral and digital anomalies syndrome is characterised by ichthyosis ,  unusual facies  ( small mouth with a thin upper lip and lower lip with a midline groove )  and digital anomalies  ( tapered fingers with a lack of distal flexion creases and wide spacing between the second and third fingers )  .
oral - facial - digital syndrome ,  type 3 is characterized by anomalies of the mouth ,  eyes and digits ,  associated with severe intellectual deficit .
oral - facial - digital syndrome ,  type 4 is characterized by lingual hamartoma ,  postaxial polysyndactyly of hands and feet ,  and mesomelic shortening of the legs with supinate equinovarus feet .
oral - facial - digital syndrome ,  type 9 is characterized by highly arched palate with bifid tongue and bilateral supernumerary lower canines ,  hamartomatous tongue ,  multiple frenula ,  hypertelorism ,  telecanthus ,  strabismus ,  broad and / or bifid nasal tip ,  short stature ,  bifid halluces ,  forked metatarsal ,  poly -  and syndactyly ,  mild intellectual deficit and specific retinal abnormalities  ( bilateral optic disc coloboma and retinal dysplasia with partial detachment )  .
gyrate atrophy of the choroid and retina  ( gacr )  is a very rare ,  inherited retinal dystrophy ,  characterized by progressive chorioretinal atrophy ,  myopia and early cataract .
an extremely rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the umps gene .
intellectual disability - cataracts - calcified pinnae - myopathy syndrome is a rare ,  genetic intellectual disability syndrome characterized by macrocephaly ,  hypotonia ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( wide forehead ,  ptosis ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  enlarged and calcified external ears ,  large jaw )  ,  sparse body hair ,  tall stature ,  and intellectual disability .
familial osteodysplasia ,  anderson type is a rare ,  genetic dysostosis disorder characterized by craniofacial bone abnormalities  ( i .e .
congenital osteogenesis imperfecta - microcephaly - cataracts syndrome is characterised by multiple fractures in the prenatal period ,  microcephaly and bilateral cataracts .
osteogenesis imperfecta type iii is a severe type of osteogenesis imperfecta  ( oi )  ,  a genetic disorder characterized by increased bone fragility ,  low bone mass and susceptibility to bone fractures .
any osteogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ppib gene .
any bruck syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fkbp10 gene .
a usually aggressive malignant bone - forming mesenchymal neoplasm ,  predominantly affecting adolescents and young adults .
a small ,  benign ,  bone - forming neoplasm that can arise from any bone but more frequently affects the long bones .
a rare ,  autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the mmp2 gene .
autosomal recessive distal osteolysis syndrome is an early - onset distal osteolysis characterised by severe resorption of the hands and feet and absence of the distal and middle phalanges .
chronic non bacterial osteomyelitis  ( cno )  ,  also known as chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis  ( crmo )  ,  is a chronic autoinflammatory syndrome that is characterized by multiple foci of painful swelling of bones ,  mainly in the metaphyses of the long bones ,  in addition to the pelvis ,  the shoulder girdle and the spine .
kaler - garrity - stern syndrome is a rare syndrome ,  described in two sisters of mennonite descent ,  characterized by sparse hair ,  osteopenia ,  intellectual disability ,  minor facial abnormalities ,  joint laxity and hypotonia .
any autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tcirg1 gene .
any autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnfsf11 gene .
any autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ostm1 gene .
osteopetrosis with renal tubular acidosis is a rare disorder characterized by osteopetrosis ,  renal tubular acidosis  ( rta )  ,  and neurological disorders related to cerebral calcifications .
osteoporosis pseudoglioma syndrome is a very rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by congenital or infancy - onset blindness and severe juvenile - onset osteoporosis and spontaneous fractures .
lethal osteosclerotic bone dysplasia is defined by generalized osteosclerosis with periosteal bone formation ,  characteristic facial dysmorphism ,  brain abnormalities including intracerebral calcifications ,  and neonatal lethal course .
primary hyperoxaluria type 1  ( ph1 )  is a rare disorder of glyoxylate metabolism characterized by the accumulation of oxalate due to a deficiency of the peroxisomal hepatic enzyme l - alanine: glyoxylate aminotransferase  ( agt )  .
primary hyperoxaluria  ( ph )  type 2 is a rare disorder of glyoxylate metabolism caused by the deficiency of the enzyme glyoxylate reductase / hydropyruvate reductase  ( gr / hpr )  characterized by a childhood onset with clinical manifestations that include recurrent nephrolithiasis ,  nephrocalcinosis and end - stage renal disease with subsequent systemic oxalosis .
5 - oxoprolinase deficiency is clinically a very heterogeneous condition characterized by 5 - oxoprolinuria .
a parkinson's disease that has material basis in mutation in the fbxo7 gene on chromosome 22q12 .3 .
a malignant neoplasm involving the pancreas .
partial agenesis of the pancreas is characterized by the congenital absence of a critical mass of pancreatic tissue .
shwachman - diamond syndrome  ( sds )  is a rare multisystemic syndrome characterized by chronic and usually mild neutropenia ,  pancreatic exocrine insufficiency associated with steatorrhea and growth failure ,  skeletal dysplasia with short stature ,  and an increased risk of bone marrow aplasia or leukemic transformation .
subacute sclerosing panencephalitis  ( sspe )  is a chronic progressive encephalitis that develops a few years after measles infection and presents with a demyelination of the cerebral cortex .
papilloma of the choroid plexus is a rare benign type of choroid plexus tumor ,  accounting for 1% of all brain tumors ,  often occurring in the fourth ventricle  ( in adults )  and the lateral ventricle  ( in children )  but sometimes arising ectopically in the brain parenchyma ,  and presenting with nausea ,  vomiting ,  papilledema ,  abnormal eye movements ,  as well as enlarged head circumference ,  seizures and gait impairment due to an increase in intracranial pressure .
a rare disorder characterized by rigid ,  thick skin that covers the entire body and affects movements .
psp - parkinsonism  ( psp - p )  is an atypical variant of progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease .
peho  ( progressive encephalopathy with edema ,  hypsarrhythmia and optic atrophy )  syndrome is a rare neurodegenerative disorder belonging to the group of infantile progressive encephalopathies .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the aimp1 gene .
pelviscapular dysplasia  ( cousin syndrome )  is characterized by the association of pelviscapular dysplasia with epiphyseal abnormalities ,  congenital dwarfism and facial dysmorphism .
pentosuria is an inborn error of metabolism which is characterized by the excretion of 1 to 4 g of the pentose l - xylulose in the urine per day .
chronic form of pericardial effusion  ( disease )  .
dissecting cellulitis of the scalp is a rare chronic suppurative dermatosis of the scalp that mainly affects black men and that is characterized by multiple painful inflammatory follicular and perifollicular nodules ,  pustules ,  and abscesses that interconnect via sinus tracts and eventually result in scarring alopecia .
hyperimmunoglobinemia d with periodic fever  ( hids )  is a rare autoinflammatory disease characterized by periodic attacks of fever and a systemic inflammatory reaction  ( cervical lymphadenopathy ,  abdominal pain ,  vomiting ,  diarrhea ,  arthralgias and skin signs )  .
congenital intrinsic factor deficiency  ( ifd )  is a rare disorder of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  absorption that is characterized by megaloblastic anemia and neurological abnormalities .
imerslund - grasbeck syndrome  ( igs )  or selective vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  malabsorption with proteinuria is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by vitamin b12 deficiency commonly resulting in megaloblastic anemia ,  which is responsive to parenteral vitamin b12 therapy and appears in childhood .
d - bifunctional protein deficiency  ( dbp deficiency ) is a genetic disorder that affects the ability of the body to effectively break down fat from our diet .
peters plus syndrome is an autosomal recessively inherited syndromic developmental defect of the eye characterized by a variable phenotype including peters anomaly and other anterior chamber eye anomalies ,  short limbs ,  limb abnormalities  ( i .e .
persistent mullerian duct syndrome  ( pmds )  is a rare disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  characterized by the persistence of mllerian derivatives ,  the uterus and / or fallopian tubes ,  in otherwise normally virilized boys .
pfeiffer - palm - teller syndrome is a very rare dysmorphic syndrome described in two sibs and characterized by a short stature ,  unique facies ,  enamel hypoplasia ,  progressive joint stiffness ,  high - pitched voice ,  cup - shaped ears ,  and narrow palpebral fissures with epicanthal folds ,  and intellectual deficit .
phaver syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by the association of limb pterygia ,  heart anomalies ,  autosomal recessive inheritance ,  vertebral defects ,  ear anomalies and radial defects .
phenylketonuria  ( pku )  is the most common inborn error of amino acid metabolism and is characterized by mild to severe mental disability in untreated patients .
dihydropteridine reductase  ( dhpr )  deficiency is a severe form of hyperphenylalaninemia  ( hpa )  due to impaired regeneration of tetrahydrobiopterin  ( bh4 )  ,  leading to decreased levels of neurotransmitters  ( dopamine ,  serotonin )  and folate in cerebrospinal fluid ,  and causing neurological symptoms such as psychomotor delay ,  hypotonia ,  seizures ,  abnormal movements ,  hypersalivation ,  and swallowing difficulties .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the pts gene ,  encoding 6 - pyruvoyl tetrahydrobiopterin synthase .
a rare ,  autosomal recessive ,  inherited disorder caused by mutation of the pgam2 gene .
pepck1 deficiency is a rare inborn error of metabolism disorder ,  characterized by the deficiency of the enzyme pepck1 ,  one of the enzymes needed for gluconeogenesis ,  the process by which organisms produce sugars  ( namely glucose )  from non - carbohydrate precursors  ( such as amino acids )  .
any glycogen storage disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkag2 gene .
glycogen storage disease  ( gsd )  due to liver and muscle phosphorylase kinase  ( phk )  deficiency is a benign inborn error of glycogen metabolism .
pierre - robin syndrome  ( or pierre - robin sequence )  is characterised by triad of orofacial morphological anomalies consisting of retrognathism ,  glossoptosis and a posterior median velopalatal cleft .
pili torti is a hair shaft abnormality characterized by flat hair that is twisted at irregular intervals .
pili torti - developmental delay - neurological abnormalities syndrome is characterized by growth and developmental delay ,  mild to moderate neurologic abnormalities ,  and pili torti .
bjrnstad syndrome is characterized by congenital sensorineural hearing loss and pili torti .
pilodental dysplasia - refractive errors syndrome is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by dysplastic abnormalities of the hair and teeth  ( including hypodontia ,  abnormally shaped teeth ,  scalp hypotrichosis and pili annulati )  ,  follicular hyperkeratosis on the trunk and limbs ,  and hyperopia .
rabson - mendenhall syndrome belongs to the group of extreme insulin - resistance syndromes  ( which also includes leprechaunism ,  the lipodystrophies ,  and the type a and b insulin resistance syndromes )  .
any achromatopsia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cngb3 gene .
an isolated growth hormone deficiency characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of severe dwarfism with onset by 6 months of age and variable development of antibodies to growth hormone following exogenous supplementation that has material basis in null mutations in the gh1 gene on chromosome 17q23 .3 .
laron syndrome is a congenital disorder characterized by marked short stature associated with normal or high serum growth hormone  ( gh )  and low serum insulin - like growth factor - 1  ( igf - i )  levels which fail to rise after exogenous gh administration .
any combined pituitary hormone deficiencies ,  genetic form in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prop1 gene .
short stature due to growth hormone qualitative anomaly is characterised by growth retardation and short stature  ( despite the presence of normal or slightly elevated levels of immunoreactive growth hormone ,  gh )  ,  low concentrations of insulin - like growth factor - i  ( igf - i )  and a significant increase in growth rate following recombinant gh therapy .
short stature - pituitary and cerebellar defects - small sella turcica syndrome is characterised by short stature ,  anterior pituitary hormone deficiency ,  small sella turcica ,  and a hypoplastic anterior hypophysis associated with pointed cerebellar tonsils .
congenital alpha2 antiplasmin deficiency is a rare hemorrhagic disorder caused by congenital deficiency of alpha2 antiplasmin ,  leading to dysregulated fibrinolysis and is characterized by a hemorrhagic tendency presenting from childhood with prolonged bleeding and ecchymoses following minor trauma and spontaneous bleeding episodes  ( often in unusual locations like diaphysis of long bones )  .
scott syndrome is an extremely rare congenital hemorrhagic disorder characterized by hemorrhagic episodes due to impaired platelet coagulant activity .
a rare idiopathic interstitial pneumonia characterized by accumulation of macrophages in alveolar spaces and interstitial inflammation .
autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease  ( arpkd )  is an inherited disorder characterised by the development of cysts affecting the collecting ducts .
polycythemia vera  ( pv )  is an acquired myeloproliferative disorder characterized by an elevated absolute red blood cell mass caused by uncontrolled red blood cell production ,  frequently associated with uncontrolled white blood cell and platelet production .
chuvash erythrocytosis is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital secondary polycythemia disorder characterized by increased hemoglobin ,  hematocrit and erythropoietin serum levels and normal oxygen affinity ,  which usually manifests with headache ,  dizziness ,  dyspnea and / or plethora .
a group of rare ,  autosomal recessive inherited disorders characterized by a constricted thoracic cage ,  short ribs ,  and a 'trident' appearance of the acetabular roof .
postaxial polydactyly - dental and vertebral anomalies syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by postaxial polydactyly and other abnormalities of the hands and feet  ( e .g .
adult polyglucosan body disease  ( apbd )  is a glycogen storage disease of adults characterized by progressive upper and lower motor neuron dysfunction ,  progressive neurogenic bladder and cognitive difficulties that can lead to dementia .
polysyndactyly - cardiac malformation syndrome is characterized by polysyndactyly ,  hexadactyly  ( duplication of the first toe )  and complex cardiac malformation  ( including atrial and ventricular septal defect ,  single ventricle ,  aortic dextroposition ,  or dilation of the right heart )  .
bartsocas - papas syndrome is a rare ,  inherited ,  popliteal pterygium syndrome characterized by severe popliteal webbing ,  microcephaly ,  a typical face with short palpebral fissures ,  ankyloblepharon ,  hypoplastic nose ,  filiform bands between the jaws and facial clefts ,  oligosyndactyly ,  genital abnormalities ,  and additional ectodermal anomalies  ( i .e .
congenital erythropoietic porphyria ,  or gnther disease ,  is a form of erythropoietic porphyria characterized by very severe and mutilating photodermatosis .
postaxial acrofacial dysostosis  ( poads )  is a type of acrofacial dysostosis characterised by mandibular and malar hypoplasia ,  small and cup - shaped ears ,  lower lid ectropion ,  and symmetrical postaxial limb deficiencies with absence of the fifth digital ray and ulnar hypoplasia .
gitelman syndrome  ( gs )  ,  also referred to as familial hypokalemia - hypomagnesemia ,  is characterized by hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis in combination with significant hypomagnesemia and low urinary calcium excretion .
this syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  short stature ,  obesity ,  genital abnormalities ,  and hand and / or toe contractures .
dehydratase deficiency or pterin - 4 alpha - carbinolamine dehydratase  ( pcd )  is considered a transient and benign form of hyperphenylalaninemia due to tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency ,  characterized by muscular hypotonia ,  irritability  ( detected by eeg )  ,  slow acquisition of psychomotor skills ,  age - dependent movement disorders ,  including dystonia and an accompanying excretion of 7 - substituted pterins .
wiedemann - rautenstrauch syndrome is a very rare disorder with features of premature aging recognizable at birth ,  decreased subcutaneous fat ,  hypotrichosis ,  relative macrocephaly and dysmorphism .
pseudodiastrophic dysplasia is characterized by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs and severe clubfoot deformity ,  in association with elbow and proximal interphalangeal joint dislocations ,  platyspondyly ,  and scoliosis .
decreased activity of the steroidogenic enzyme ,  17 - beta - hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase ,  associated with mutation ( s )  in the hsd17b3 gene ,  leading to reduced testosterone production .
generalized pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1  ( generalized pha1 )  is a severe form of primary mineralocorticoid resistance with systemic involvement and salt loss in multiple organs .
peroxisomal acyl - coa oxidase deficiency is a rare neurodegenerative disorder that belongs to the group of inherited peroxisomal disorders and is characterized by hypotonia and seizures in the neonatal period and neurological regression in early infancy .
acro - oto - ocular syndrome is a very rare disorder associating pseudopapilledema  ( optic disc swelling not secondary to increased intracranial pressure )  ,  mixed hearing loss ,  facial dysmorphism and limb extremity anomalies .
holoprosencephaly - postaxial polydactyly syndrome associates ,  in chromosomally normal neonates ,  holoprosencephaly ,  severe facial dysmorphism ,  postaxial polydactyly and other congenital abnormalities ,  suggestive of trisomy 13 .
a rare disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  due to a defect in metabolizing testosterone to dihydrotestosterone and characterized by incomplete intrauterine masculinization which ranges from a female genitalia with a blind vaginal pouch to a fully male phenotype with pseudovaginal posterior hypospadias and micropenis .
hypocalcemic vitamin d - dependent rickets  ( vddr - i )  is an early - onset hereditary vitamin d metabolism disorder characterized by severe hypocalcemia leading to osteomalacia and rachitic bone deformations ,  and moderate hypophosphatemia .
an autosomal recessive form of pxe .
a rare congenital disorder ,  this is the non - lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome ,  characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities ,  pterygium and akinethesia .
any 3mc syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the colec11 gene .
pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis is a disorder in which tiny fragments  ( microliths )  of calcium phosphate gradually accumulate in the small air sacs  ( alveoli )  of the lungs .
pulmonary arteriovenous malformation  ( pavm )  describes an anatomic communication between a pulmonary artery and a pulmonary vein leading to a right to left extracardiac shunt that can be asymptomatic or can lead to varying manifestations such as dyspnea ,  hemoptysis ,  and neurological symptoms .
pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum  ( pa - ivs )  is a rare form of cyanotic congenital heart malformation characterized by severe cyanosis and tachypnea .
congenital pulmonary lymphangiectasia  ( pl )  is a rare developmental disorder involving the lung and characterized by pulmonary subpleural ,  interlobar ,  perivascular ,  and peribronchial lymphatic dilatation .
congenital alveolar capillary dysplasia  ( acd )  is a rare and fatal developmental lung disease characterized by respiratory distress in neonates due to refractory hypoxemia and severe pulmonary arterial hypertension .
primary pulmonary hypoplasia is a rare ,  isolated ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by congential malformation of pulmonary parenchyma with absence of other anomalies .
a disorder characterized by pulmonary venous constriction or occlusion ,  resulting in pulmonary hypertension .
pycnodysostosis is a genetic lysosomal disease characterized by short stature ,  increased density of the bones  ( osteosclerosis / osteopetrosis )  ,  and brittle bones .
pyknoachondrogenesis is a lethal skeletal osteochondrodysplasia characterized by severe generalized osteosclerosis .
pyle disease is a bone dysplasia characterised by genu valgum ,  metaphyseal anomalies with broadening of the long bones extending into the diaphyses and giving the femora and tibiae an 'erlenmeyer flask'' appearance ,  widening of the ribs and clavicles ,  platyspondyly and cortical thinning .
pyridoxine - dependent epilepsy  ( pde )  is a rare neurometabolic disease characterized by recurrent intractable seizures in the prenatal ,  neonatal and postnatal period that are resistant to anti - epileptic drugs  ( aeds )  but that are responsive to pharmacological dosages of pyridoxine  ( vitamin b6 )  .
hemolytic anemia due to pyrimidine 5' nucleotidase deficiency is a rare ,  hereditary ,  hemolytic anemia due to an erythrocyte nucleotide metabolism disorder characterized by mild to moderate hemolytic anemia associated with basophilic stippling and the accumulation of high concentrations of pyrimidine nucleotides within the erythrocyte .
an autosomal recessive inherited severe hemolytic anemia .
pyruvate carboxylase  ( pc )  deficiency is a rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by metabolic acidosis ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  and recurrent seizures at an early age in severely affected patients .
hemolytic anemia due to red cell pyruvate kinase  ( pk )  deficiency is a metabolic disorder characterized by a variable degree of chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia .
radioulnar synostosis - developmental delay - hypotonia syndrome ,  also known as der kaloustian - mcintosh - silver syndrome ,  is an extremely rare syndrome with synostosis described in about 4 patients to date with clinical manifestations including congenital unilateral radioulnar synostosis ,  generalized hypotonia ,  developmental delay ,  and dysmorphic facial features  ( long face ,  prominent nose and ears )  .
leukocyte adhesion deficiency type ii  ( lad - ii )  is a form of lad characterized by recurrent bacterial infections ,  severe growth delay and severe intellectual deficit .
rapadilino syndrome is a syndrome for which the acronym indicates the principal signs: ra for radial ray defect ,  pa for both patellae hypoplasia or aplasia and cleft or highly arched palate ,  di for diarrhea and dislocated joints ,  li for little size and limb malformations ,  no for long ,  slender nose and normal intelligence .
refsum disease  ( rd )  is a very rare ,  clinically variable ,  multisystemic metabolic disease ,  characterized by anosmia ,  early - onset retinitis pigmentosa and possible neurological manifestations ,  including neuropathy ,  and cerebellar ataxia ,  deafness ,  ichthyosis ,  skeletal abnormalities ,  and cardiac arrhythmia .
a genetic disorder characterized by abnormalities in the breakdown of phytanic acid .
any inflammatory bowel disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nod2 gene .
any senior - loken syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nphp1 gene .
ulbright - hodes syndrome is characterised by renal dysplasia ,  growth retardation ,  phocomelia or mesomelia ,  radiohumeral fusion ,  rib abnormalities ,  anomalies of the external genitalia and a potter - like facies .
an asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the ift140 gene on chromosome 16p13 .
perlman syndrome is characterized principally by polyhydramnios ,  neonatal macrosomia ,  bilateral renal tumours  ( hamartomas with or without nephroblastomatosis )  ,  hypertrophy of the islets of langerhans and facial dysmorphism .
an instance of renal tubular dysgenesis that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
infant acute respiratory distress syndrome is a lung disorder that affects premature infants caused by developmental insufficiency of surfactant production and structural immaturity of the lungs .
reticular dysgenesis is the most severe form of severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  and is characterized by bilateral sensorineural deafness and a lack of innate and adaptive immune functions leading to fatal septicemia within days after birth if not treated .
familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis  ( fhl )  is a rare primary immunodeficiency characterized by a macrophage activation syndrome with an onset usually occurring within a few months or less common several years after birth .
an antiquated term that refers to a non - hodgkin lymphoma composed of diffuse infiltrates of large ,  often anaplastic lymphocytes .
knobloch syndrome  ( ks )  is defined by vitreoretinal and macular degeneration ,  and occipital encephalocele .
retinal degeneration - nanophthalmos - glaucoma syndrome is characterized by progressive pigmentary retinal degeneration  ( with nyctalopia and visual field restriction )  ,  cystic macular degeneration and angle closure glaucoma .
reticular dystrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium is a patterned dystrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium ,  of progressive course ,  characterized by the presence of a bilateral hyperpigmented reticular pattern resembling a fishnet with knots ,  resulting in a slowly progressive loss of vision that often only becomes apparent in old age .
retinitis pigmentosa  -  intellectual disability  -  deafness  -  hypogenitalism is an extremely rare syndromic retinitis pigmentosa characterized by pigmentary retinopathy ,  diabetes mellitus with hyperinsulinism ,  acanthosis nigricans ,  secondary cataracts ,  neurogenic deafness ,  short stature mild hypogonadism in males and polycystic ovaries with oligomenorrhea in females .
a retinitis pigmentosa that is characterized by onset of symptoms in the fifth or sixth decade of life .
retinohepatoendocrinologic syndrome is characterized by total colorblindness caused by progressive cone dystrophy ,  degenerative liver disease ,  and endocrine dysfunction  ( hypothyroidism ,  diabetes ,  repeated abortions or infertility )  .
a retinitis pigmentosa that is characterized autosomal recessive inheritance of pigmentary retinal degeneration with onset in the infancy but slower rates of progression than other forms of retinopathy .
goldmann - favre syndrome  ( gfs )  is a vitreoretinal dystrophy characterized by early onset of night blindness ,  reduced bilateral visual acuity ,  and typical fundus findings  ( progressive pigmentary degenerative changes ,  macular edema ,  retinoschisis )  .
revesz syndrome is a rare severe phenotypic variant of dyskeratosis congenita  ( dc )  with an onset in early childhood ,  characterized by features of dc  ( e .g .
a poorly circumscribed morphologic variant of rhabdomyosarcoma .
a rapidly growing malignant mesenchymal neoplasm .
rhizomelic syndrome ,  urbach type is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by upper limbs rhizomelia and other skeletal anomalies  ( e .g .
roberts syndrome  ( rbs )  is characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  severe symmetric limb reduction defects ,  craniofacial anomalies and severe intellectual deficit .
richieri costa - pereira syndrome is characterized by short stature ,  robin sequence ,  cleft mandible ,  pre / postaxial hand anomalies  ( including hypoplastic thumbs )  ,  and clubfoot .
autosomal recessive robinow syndrome  ( rrs )  is the less common type of robinow syndrome  ( rs )  characterized by short - limb dwarfism ,  costovertebral segmentation defects and abnormalities of the head ,  face and external genitalia .
ectodermal dysplasia - blindness syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  blindness caused by ocular malformations  ( microphthalmia ,  microcornea and sclerocornea )  ,  short stature ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( narrow nasal bridge and prominent ears )  ,  hypotrichosis ,  and malaligned teeth .
rothmund - thomson syndrome  ( rts )  is a genodermatosis presenting with a characteristic facial rash  ( poikiloderma )  associated with short stature due to pre -  and postnatal growth delay ,  sparse scalp hair ,  sparse or absent eyelashes and / or eyebrows ,  juvenile cataracts ,  skeletal abnormalities ,  radial ray defects ,  premature aging and a predisposition to certain cancers .
eec syndrome is a genetic developmental disorder characterized by ectrodactyly ,  ectodermal dysplasia ,  and orofacial clefts  ( cleft lip / palate )  .
saccharopinuria is a disorder of lysine metabolism associated with hyperlysinaemia and lysinuria .
sandhoff disease is a lysosomal storage disorder from the gm2 gangliosidosis family and is characterised by central nervous system degeneration .
microbrachycephaly - ptosis - cleft lip syndrome is characterised by the association of intellectual deficit ,  microbrachycephaly ,  hypotelorism ,  palpebral ptosis ,  a thin / long face ,  cleft lip ,  and anomalies of the lumbar vertebra ,  sacrum and pelvis .
sarcosinemia is a metabolic disorder characterized by an increased concentration of sarcosine in plasma and urine due to sarcosine dehydrogenase deficiency .
a rare genetic syndrome with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance .
schinzel - giedion syndrome  ( sgs )  is an ectodermal dysplasia syndrome chiefly characterized by a distinctive facial dysmorphism ,  hydronephrosis ,  severe developmental delay ,  typical skeletal malformations ,  and genital and cardiac anomalies .
schizencephaly is a rare congenital cerebral malformation characterized by the presence of linear clefts in one or both hemispheres of the brain ,  extending from the lateral ventricles to the pial surface of the cortex ,  and that lead to a variety of neurological symptoms such as epilepsy ,  motor deficits ,  and psychomotor retardation .
autoimmune polyglandular syndrome of likely polygenic etiology characterized by the presence of primary adrenal insufficiency in association with autoimmune thyroiditis and / or type 1 diabetes mellitus ;  this condition is not associated with mucocutaneous candidiasis .
schneckenbecken dysplasia  ( or chondrodysplasia with snail - like pelvis )  is a prenatally lethal spondylodysplastic dysplasia .
craniometadiaphyseal dysplasia ,  wormian bone type is an extremely rare craniotubular bone dysplasia syndrome described in fewer than 10 patients to date .
any anterior segment dysgenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pxdn gene .
any sclerosteosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sost gene .
a rare ,  inherited or acquired syndrome characterized by the presence of histiocytes in the bone marrow which contain granules stained blue with hematoxylin - eosin stain ,  mild thrombocytopenia and purpura ,  and splenomegaly .
any congenital generalized lipodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bscl2 gene .
combined immunodeficiency due to zap70 deficiency is a very rare ,  severe ,  genetic ,  combined immunodeficiency disorder characterized by lymphocytosis ,  decreased peripheral cd8 +  t - cells ,  and presence of normal circulating cd4 +  t - cells ,  leading to immune dysfunction .
short rib - polydactyly syndrome  ( srps )  ,  beemer - langer type is an extremely rare type of srps developing prenatally or immediately after birth and characterized by short and narrow thorax with horizontally oriented ribs .
short syndrome is a rare inherited condition of multiple anomalies whose name stands for short stature ,  hyperextensibility of joints ,  ocular depression ,  rieger anomaly and teething delay which ,  along with mild intrauterine growth restriction ,  partial lipodystrophy ,  delayed bone age ,  hernias and progeroid appearance ,  are manifestations of the disease .
sialuria is an extremely rare metabolic disorder described in fewer than 10 patients to date and characterized by variable signs and symptoms ,  mostly in infancy ,  including transient failure to thrive ,  slightly prolonged neonatal jaundice ,  equivocal or mild hepatomegaly ,  microcytic anemia ,  frequent upper respiratory infections ,  gastroenteritis ,  dehydration and flat and coarse facies .
a congenital condition in which there is complete right - to - left reversal of the position of the major thoracic and abdominal organs  ( that is ,  they are arranged in a mirror image of the normal positioning )  .
an autoimmune disorder in which immune cells attack and destroy the glands that produce tears and saliva .
sjc6gren - larsson syndrome  ( sls )  is a neurocutaneous disorder caused by an inborn error of lipid metabolism and characterized by congenital ichthyosis ,  intellectual deficit ,  and spasticity .
generalized peeling skin syndrome  ( pss )  is a form of pss presenting with a generalized distribution .
smith - lemli - opitz syndrome  ( slos )  is characterized by multiple congenital anomalies ,  intellectual deficit ,  and behavioral problems .
any secretory diarrhea in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spint2 gene .
growth delay due to igf - i resistance is characterised by variable intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation and elevated serum igf - i levels .
heart defect b round face b congenital developmental delay is very rare syndrome described in three sibs of one japanese family and characterized by congenital heart disease ,  round face with depressed nasal bridge ,  small mouth ,  short stature ,  and relatively dark skin and typical dermatoglyphic anomalies ,  and intellectual deficit .
autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of charlevoix - saguenay  ( arsacs )  is a neurodegenerative disorder characterised by early - onset cerebellar ataxia with spasticity ,  a pyramidal syndrome and peripheral neuropathy .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bscl2 gene .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 15 is a complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a childhood to adulthood onset of slowly progressive lower limb spasticity  ( resulting in gait disturbance ,  extensor plantar responses and decreased vibration sense )  associated with mild intellectual disability ,  mild cerebellar ataxia ,  peripheral neuropathy  ( with distal upper limb amyotrophy )  and retinal degeneration .
this syndrome is characterized by slowly progressive spastic paraplegia ,  skeletal anomalies of the hands and feet with brachydactyly type e ,  cone - shaped epiphyses ,  abnormal metaphyseal phalangeal pattern profile ,  sternal anomaly  ( pectus carinatum or excavatum )  ,  dysarthria ,  and mild intellectual deficit .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 23  ( spg23 )  is a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia that presents in childhood with progressive spastic paraplegia ,  associated with peripheral neuropathy ,  skin pigment abnormalities  ( i .e .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 5a  ( spg5a )  is a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by either a pure phenotype of slowly progressive spastic paraplegia of the lower extremities with bladder dysfunction and pes cavus or a complex presentation with additional manifestations including cerebellar signs ,  nystagmus ,  distal or generalized muscle atrophy and cognitive impairment .
spastic paraplegia - glaucoma - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by progressive spastic paraplegia ,  glaucoma and intellectual deficit .
spastic tetraplegia - retinitis pigmentosa - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by nonprogressive spastic paraplegia ,  retinitis pigmentosa ,  and intellectual deficit .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sycp3 gene .
any hereditary spherocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spta1 gene .
proximal spinal muscular atrophy type 4  ( sma4 )  is the adult - onset form of proximal spinal muscular atrophy characterized by muscle weakness and hypotonia resulting from the degeneration and loss of the lower motor neurons in the spinal cord and the brain stem nuclei .
infantile - onset spinocerebellar ataxia  ( iosca )  is a hereditary neurological disorder with early and severe involvement of both the peripheral and central nervous systems .
spinocerebellar ataxia - dysmorphism is marked by characteristic facies associated with dysarthria ,  delayed psychomotor development ,  ataxia ,  scoliosis and foot deformities .
corneal cerebellar syndrome is characterised by the unusual combination of spinocerebellar degeneration and corneal dystrophy .
mousa - aldin - alnassar syndrome is characterised by the presence of spastic ataxia in association with bilateral congenital cataract ,  corneal dystrophy ,  and nonaxial myopia .
familial isolated congenital asplenia is a rare ,  non - syndromic ,  potentially life - threatening visceral malformation characterized by the absence of normal spleen function ,  resulting in a primary immunodeficiency .
a rare genetic disorder characterized by bone marrow failure ,  spinal abnormalities ,  saddle nose ,  and metaphysical striation .
spondylocostal dysostosis - anal and genitourinary malformations syndrome is characterised by the association of spondylocostal dysostosis with anal and genitourinary malformations  ( anal atresia and agenesis of external and internal genitalia )  .
spondyloenchondrodysplasia  ( spencd )  is a very rare genetic skeletal dysplasia characterized clinically by skeletal anomalies  ( short stature ,  platyspondyly ,  short broad ilia )  and enchondromas in the long bones or pelvis .
autosomal recessive form of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda ,  kohn type is characterized by short trunk dwarfism ,  progressive involvement of the spine and epiphyses and mild - to - moderate intellectual deficit .
any spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia with joint laxity in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the b3galt6 gene .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  irapa type is characterized by disproportionate short - trunked short stature ,  pectus carinatum ,  short arms ,  short and broad hands ,  short metatarsals ,  flat and broad feet ,  coxa vara ,  genu valgum ,  osteoarthritis ,  arthrosis and moderate - to - serious gait impairment .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia - short limb - abnormal calcification syndrome is a rare ,  genetic primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by disproportionate short stature with shortening of upper and lower limbs ,  short and broad fingers with short hands ,  narrowed chest with rib abnormalities and pectus excavatum ,  abnormal chondral calcifications  ( incl .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the col2a1 gene ,  encoding collagen alpha - 1 ( ii )  chain .
canavan disease  ( cd )  is a neurodegenerative disorder ;  its spectrum varies between severe forms with leukodystrophy ,  macrocephaly and severe developmental delay ,  and a very rare mild / juvenile form characterized by mild developmental delay .
familial infantile bilateral striatal necrosis is the familial form of infantile bilateral striatal necrosis  ( ibsn )  ,  a syndrome of bilateral symmetric spongy degeneration of the caudate nucleus ,  putamen and globus pallidus characterized by developmental regression ,  choreoathetosis and dystonia progressing to spastic quadriparesis .
succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase  ( ssadh )  deficiency is a rare neurometabolic disorder of gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  metabolism with a nonspecific clinical presentation  ( ranging from mild to severe )  with the most frequent symptoms being cognitive impairment with prominent deficit in expressive language ,  hypotonia ,  ataxia ,  epilepsy ,  and behavioral dysregulation .
schilder's disease is a progressive demyelinating disorder of the central nervous system .
sudden infant death syndrome  ( sids )  is the unexpected ,  sudden death of a child under age 1 which cannot be explained after a thorough investigation is conducted .
sugarman brachydactyly is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital limb malformation characterized by brachydactyly of fingers ,  with major proximal phalangeal shortening and immobile proximal interphalangeal joints ,  as well as dorsally and proximally placed ,  non - articulating great toes  ( with or without angulation )  .
multiple sulfatase deficiency  ( msd )  is a very rare and fatal lysosomal storage disease characterized by a clinical phenotype that combines the features of different sulfatase deficiencies  ( whether lysosomal or not )  that can have neonatal  ( most severe )  ,  infantile  ( most common )  and juvenile  ( rare )  presentations with manifestations including hypotonia ,  coarse facial features ,  mild deafness ,  skeletal anomalies ,  ichthyosis ,  hepatomegaly ,  developmental delay ,  progressive neurologic deterioration and hydrocephalus .
summitt syndrome is an extremely rare disorder originally described in two brothers and characterized by mild to severe craniosynostosis and syndactyly ,  obesity ,  and normal intelligence .
crisponi syndrome  ( cs )  is a severe disorder characterized by muscular contractions at birth ,  intermittent hyperthermia ,  facial abnormalities and camptodactyly .
filippi syndrome is characterised by microcephaly ,  cutaneous syndactyly of the fingers and toes ,  intellectual deficit ,  growth retardation and a characteristic facies  ( high and broad nasal bridge ,  thin alae nasi ,  micrognathia and a high frontal hairline )  .
spondylocarpotarsal synostosis  ( sct )  syndrome is a skeletal dysplasia clinically characterized by postnatal progressive vertebral fusions frequently manifesting as block vertebrae ,  contributing to an undersized trunk and a disproportionate short stature ,  scoliosis ,  lordosis ,  carpal and tarsal synostosis ,  with club feet and a mild facial dysmorphism .
taurodontism is a dental anomaly characterized by an elongated pulp chamber ,  displaced toward the apical floor of the tooth with no constriction at the level of the cemento - enamel junction ,  and short roots .
gm2 gangliosidosis ,  ab variant is an extremely rare ,  severe genetic disorder characterized by progressive neurological decline due to ganglioside activator deficiency .
gm2 gangliosidosis ,  variant b or tay - sachs disease is marked by accumulation of g2 gangliosides due to hexosaminidase a deficiency .
teebi - shaltout syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  development defect during embryogenesis malformation syndrome characterized by association of characteristic facial features  ( including abnormal head shape with narrow forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  telecanthus ,  small earlobes ,  broad nasal bridge and tip ,  underdeveloped ala nasi ,  small / wide mouth and high / cleft palate )  ,  ectodermal dysplasia  ( including oligodontia with delayed dentition ,  slow growing hair and reduced sweating )  and skeletal abnormalities including camptodactyly and caudal appendage .
this syndrome is characterised by congenital absence of the teeth ,  and sparse or absent hair .
noneruption of teeth  -  maxillary hypoplasia  -  genu valgum is an extremely rare syndrome that is characterized by multiple unerupted permanent teeth ,  hypoplasia of the alveolar process and of the maxillo - zygomatic region ,  severe genu valgum and deformed ears .
testicular regression syndrome  ( trs )  is a developmental anomaly characterized by the absence of one or both testicles with partial or complete absence of testicular tissue .
a germ cell tumor arising from the testis .
tetraamelia  -  multiple malformations is an extremely rare mostly lethal congenital disorder characterized by absence of all four limbs and frequent associated major malformations involving the head ,  face ,  eyes ,  skeleton ,  heart ,  lungs ,  anus ,  urogenital ,  and central nervous systems .
odontotrichomelic syndrome is characterised by malformations of all four extremities ,  hypoplastic nails ,  ear anomalies ,  hypotrichosis ,  abnormal dentition ,  hyperhidrosis and nasolacrimal duct obstruction .
any 3 - m syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cul7 gene .
glanzmann thrombasthenia  ( gt )  is a bleeding syndrome characterized by spontaneous mucocutaneous bleeding and an exaggerated response to trauma due to a constitutional thrombocytopenia .
thrombocytopenia - absent radius  ( tar )  syndrome is a very rare congenital malformation syndrome characterized by bilateral radial aplasia and thrombocytopenia .
congenital thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is the hereditary form of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura  ( ttp )  characterized by profound peripheral thrombocytopenia ,  microangiopathic hemolytic anemia  ( maha )  and single or multiple organ failure of variable severity .
absent thumb - short stature - immunodeficiency is an exceedingly rare ,  autosomal recessive immune disease characterized by thumb aplasia ,  short stature with skeletal abnormalities ,  and combined immunodeficiency described in three sibships from two possibly related families .
upper limb defect  -  eye and ear abnormalities syndrome associates upper limb defects  ( hypoplastic thumb with hypoplasia of the metacarpal bone and phalanges and delayed bone maturation )  ,  developmental delay ,  central hearing loss ,  unilateral poorly developed antihelix ,  bilateral choroid coloboma and growth retardation .
an instance of thymoma  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
thyrocerebrorenal syndrome is characterized by renal ,  neurologic ,  thyroid disease ,  associated with thrombocytopenia .
this syndrome is characterised by intrauterine growth retardation ,  renal dysgenesis and a unilobed or absent thymus .
dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase  ( dpd )  deficiency isaconditionin which the body cannot break down the nucleotides thymine and uracil .
a rare ,  autosomal recessive inherited disorder usually caused by mutations in the thrb gene .
familial thyroid dyshormonogenesis is a type of primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth ,  which results from inborn errors of thyroid hormone synthesis .
thyroid peroxidase system defect due to presumed mutation ( s )  in the tpo gene ,  resulting in decreased activity of thyroid peroxidase .
pendred syndrome  ( pds )  is a clinically variable genetic disorder characterized by bilateral sensorineural hearing loss and euthyroid goiter .
any familial thyroid dyshormonogenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tg gene .
any familial thyroid dyshormonogenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the iyd gene .
any familial thyroid dyshormonogenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the duoxa2 gene .
a hypermetabolic syndrome caused by the elevation of thyroid hormone levels in the serum .
isolated thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  deficiency is a type of central congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid deficiency that is present from birth ,  characterized by low levels of thyroid hormones due to a deficiency in tsh synthesis .
hypothyroidism due to dysfunction of the hypothalamus ,  assumed to result in reduced secretion of thyrotropin -  releasing hormone .
hypothyroidism due to thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  receptor mutations is a type of primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth due to thyroid resistance to tsh .
restrictive dermopathy  ( rd )  is a neonatal lethal genetic disease characterized by very tight and thin skin with erosions and scaling ,  associated to a typical facial dysmorphism ,  arthrogryposis multiplex ,  fetal akinesia or hypokinesia deformation sequence  ( fads )  and pulmonary hypoplasia without neurological abnormalities .
tibial hemimelia is a rare congenital anomaly characterized by deficiency of the tibia with a relatively intact fibula .
a rare inflammatory and suppurating type of tinea capitis ,  a skin infection caused by trichophyton or microsporum fungi ,  that predominantly affects the scalp and that is characterized by the development of painful crusty lesions covered with follicular pustules and surrounded by erythematous alopecic areas ,  that can later evolve into abscesses and leave permanent cicatricial alopecia .
mounier - kuhn syndrome ,  also known as idiopathic tracheobronchomegaly ,  is a congenital disorder characterized by marked dilatation of the trachea and proximal bronchi that leads to impaired airway secretion clearance and recurrent lower respiratory tract infections .
transcobalamin deficiency  ( tc )  is a disorder of cobalamin transport that usually presents during the first few months of life and is characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  failure to thrive ,  vomiting ,  weakness and pancytopenia .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from any of the following anatomic sites: lip and oral cavity ,  nasal cavity ,  paranasal sinuses ,  pharynx ,  larynx ,  and salivary glands .
trichomegaly - retina pigmentary degeneration - dwarfism syndrome ,  also known as oliver - mcfarlane syndrome ,  is an extremely rare genetic disorder characterized by hair abnormalities ,  severe chorioretinal atrophy ,  hypopituitarism ,  short stature ,  and intellectual disability .
trichoodontoonychial dysplasia is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by severe generalized hypotrichosis ,  parietal alopecia ,  secondary anodontia resulting from enamel hypoplasia ,  onychodystrophy ,  bone deficiency in the frontoparietal region and skin manifestations  ( incl .
trigonocephaly - bifid nose - acral anomalies syndrome is characterized by trigonocephaly ,  brachycephaly ,  bulbous nose  ( bifid at the tip )  ,  micrognathia ,  macrostomia ,  hypotonia and relatively broad metatarsals and phalanges .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 20  ( spg20 )  is a type of complex hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an onset in infancy of progressive spastic paraparesis associated with distal amyotrophy ,  psuedobulbar palsy ,  motor and cognitive delays ,  mild cerebellar signs  ( dysarthria ,  dysdiadochokinesia ,  mild intention tremor )  ,  short stature and subtle skeletal abnormalities  ( pes cavus ,  mild talipes equinovarus ,  kyphoscoliosis )  .
a rare childhood cancer predisposition syndrome caused by biallelic inheritance of mutations in mlh1 ,  msh2 ,  msh6 ,  or pms2 genes .
tyrosinemia type 2 is an inborn error of tyrosine metabolism characterized by hypertyrosinemia with oculocutaneous manifestations and ,  in some cases ,  intellectual deficit .
tyrosinemia type 1  ( hti )  is an inborn error of tyrosine catabolism caused by defective activity of fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase  ( fah )  and is characterized by progressive liver disease ,  renal tubular dysfunction ,  porphyria - like crises and a dramatic improvement in prognosis following treatment with nitisinone .
tyrosinemia type 3 is an inborn error of tyrosine metabolism characterised by mild hypertyrosinemia and increased urinary excretion of 4 - hydroxyphenylpyruvate ,  4 - hydroxyphenyllactate and 4 - hydroxyphenylacetate .
schinzel phocomelia syndrome ,  also called limb / pelvis hypoplasia / aplasia syndrome ,  is characterized by skeletal malformations affecting the ulnae ,  pelvic bones ,  fibulae and femora .
ulna hypoplasia  -  intellectual deficit is a very rare syndrome characterized by mesomelic shortness of the forearms ,  bilateral clubfeet ,  aplasia or hypoplasia of all nails and severe psychomotor retardation .
encephalopathy due to urocanase deficiency is an extremely rare histidine metabolism disorder characterized by urocanic aciduria and other variable manifestations including intellectual deficit and intermittent ataxia in the 4 cases reported to date .
a syndrome characterized by congenital ,  bilateral ,  severe sensorineural hearing loss ,  abnormalities in the vestibular system ,  and adolescent - onset retinitis pigmentosa .
any usher syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ush2a gene .
any usher syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clrn1 gene .
a form of usher syndrome type i that is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the gene encoding harmonin on chromosome 11p15 .
vacterl is an acronym for vertebral anomalies ,  anal atresia ,  congenital cardiac disease ,  tracheoesophageal fistula ,  renal anomalies ,  and limb defects .
mayer - rokitansky - kster - hauser  ( mrkh )  syndrome type 1 ,  a form of mrkh syndrome ,  is an isolated form of congenital aplasia of the uterus and 2 / 3 of the vagina occurring in otherwise phenotypically normal females .
valinemia is a very rare metabolic disorder characterized by abnormally high levels of the amino acid valine in the blood and urine .infants with valinemia reportedly experience lack of appetite ,  vomiting ,  and failure to thrive .
joubert syndrome with orofaciodigital defect  ( or oral - facial - digital syndrome type 6 ,  ofd6 )  is a very rare subtype of joubert syndrome and related disorders  ( jsrd )  characterized by the neurological features of js associated with orofacial anomalies and often polydactyly .
retinal ischemic syndrome - digestive tract small vessel hyalinosis - diffuse cerebral calcifications syndrome is characterized by progressive hyalinosis involving capillaries and often arterioles and small veins of the digestive tract ,  kidneys ,  and idiopathic cerebral calcifications .
an autosomal recessive disorder that is associated with mutation ( s )  in the cftr gene ,  encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator .
isolated right ventricular hypoplasia  ( irvh )  is a rare congenital heart malformation characterized by underdevelopment of the right ventricle associated with patent foramen ovale or interauricular communication and normally developed tricuspid and pulmonary valves .
autosomal recessive spondylocostal dysostosis  ( arsd )  is a rare condition of variable severity associated with vertebral and rib segmentation defects and characterised by a short neck with limited mobility ,  winged scapulae ,  a short trunk ,  and short stature with multiple vertebral anomalies at all levels of the spine .
oculogastrointestinal muscular dystrophy is an extremely rare autosomal recessively inherited neuromuscular disease characterized by ocular manifestations such as ptosis and diplopia followed by chronic diarrhea ,  malnutrion and intestinal peudo - obstruction .
a form of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria ,  an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  lethargy ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual deficit and seizures .
a form of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria ,  an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  lethargy ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual deficit and seizures .
a form of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria ,  an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by variable biochemical ,  neurological and hematological manifestations .
rickets caused by a defect in the vdr gene ,  encoding the vitamin d receptor .
combined vitamin k - dependent clotting factors deficiency  ( vkcfd )  is a congenital bleeding disorder resulting from variably decreased levels of coagulation factors ii ,  vii ,  ix and x ,  as well as natural anticoagulants protein c ,  protein s and protein z .
ataxia with vitamin e deficiency  ( aved )  is a neurodegenerative disease belonging to the inherited cerebellar ataxias .
any pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tsen54 gene .
type 3 von willebrand disease  ( type 3 vwd )  is the most severe form of vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with a total or near - total absence of willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  in the plasma and cellular compartments ,  also leading to a profound deficiency of plasmatic factor viii  ( fviii )  .
a subtype of waardenburg syndrome type 4  ( waardenburg - shah syndrome )  caused by mutations in ednrb .
weaver syndrome  ( wvs )  is a rare ,  multisystem disorder characterized by tall stature ,  a typical facial appearance  ( hypertelorism ,  retrognathia )  and variable intellectual disability .
any weill - marchesani syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the adamts10 gene .
weissenbacher - zweymuller syndrome  ( wzs )  is characterized by short stature at birth ,  neonatal micrognathia ,  cleft palate ,  rhizomelic chondrodysplasia with 'dumbbell' shaped arm and leg bones ,  hypertelorism and vertebral coronal clefts .
werner syndrome  ( ws )  is a rare inherited syndrome characterized by premature aging with onset in the third decade of life and with cardinal clinical features including bilateral cataracts ,  short stature ,  graying and thinning of scalp hair ,  characteristic skin disorders and premature onset of additional age - related disorders .
wernicke - korsakoff syndrome is a brain disorder ,  due to thiamine deficiency that has been associated with both wernicke's encephalopathy and korsakoff syndrome .
white forelock with malformations is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by poliosis ,  distinct facial features  ( epicanthal folds ,  hypertelorism ,  posterior rotation of ears ,  prominent philtrum ,  high - arched palate )  and congenital anomalies / malformations of the eye  ( blue sclera )  ,  cardiopulmonary  ( atrial septal defect ,  prominent thoracic and abdominal veins )  ,  and skeletal  ( clinodactyly ,  syndactyly of the fingers and 2nd and 3rd toes )  systems .
wilson disease is a very rare inherited multisystemic disease presenting non - specific neurological ,  hepatic ,  psychiatric or osseo - muscular manifestations due to excessive copper deposition in the body .
intellectual disability ,  wolff type is a rare intellectual disability syndrome characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  characteristic facial features  ( low anterior hairline ,  upward slanting palpebral fissures ,  ocular hypertelorism ,  broad ,  bulbous nose ,  large ears with helix incompletely developed ,  thick lips ,  and micrognathia )  and additional anomalies including peripheral joint contractures ,  delayed skeletal maturation ,  bilateral cleft lip and palate ,  strabismus ,  terminal hypoplasia of fingers ,  hypospadias ,  and bilateral inguinal hernias .
lysosomal acid lipase deficiency is a lipid storage disease that can result in 1 )  an early - onset severe form ,  wolman disease ,  or 2 )  a less severe form ,  cholesteryl ester storage disease ,  of cholesteryl ester accumulation in the body  ( liver ,  spleen ,  macrophages )  .
any hypotrichosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lpar6 gene .
wrinkly skin syndrome  ( wss )  is characterized by wrinkling of the skin of the dorsum of the hands and feet ,  an increased number of palmar and plantar creases ,  wrinkled abdominal skin ,  multiple skeletal abnormalities  ( joint laxity and congenital hip dislocation )  ,  late closing of the anterior fontanel ,  microcephaly ,  pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  developmental delay and facial dysmorphism  ( a broad nasal bridge ,  downslanting palpebral fissures and hypertelorism )  .
type i xanthinuria ,  a type of classical xanthinuria ,  is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of purine metabolism characterized by the isolated deficiency of xanthine dehydrogenase ,  causing hyperxanthinemia with low or absent uric acid and xanthinuria ,  leading to urolithiasis ,  hematuria ,  renal colic and urinary tract infections ,  while some patients are asymptomatic and others suffer from kidney failure .
any xeroderma pigmentosum in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the xpa gene .
an autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the xpc gene .
any xeroderma pigmentosum in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc2 gene .
an autosomal recessive genetic disorder caused by mutations in the ddb2 gene .
xeroderma pigmentosum variant is a milder subtype of xeroderma pigmentosum  ( xp )  ,  a rare genetic photodermatosis characterized by severe sun sensitivity and an increased risk of skin cancer .
any xeroderma pigmentosum in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc4 gene .
any xeroderma pigmentosum in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc5 gene .
a rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome .
young syndrome is characterised by the association of obstructive azoospermia with recurrent sinobronchial infections .
chime syndrome is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by ocular colobomas ,  cardiac defects ,  ichthyosiform dermatosis ,  intellectual disability ,  conductive hearing loss and epilepsy .
x - linked form of opitz g / bbb syndrome .
corpus callosum agenesis - abnormal genitalia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  mild to severe neurological manifestations  ( intellectual disability ,  developmental delay ,  epilepsy ,  dystonia )  ,  and urogenital anomalies  ( hypospadias ,  cryptorchidism ,  renal dysplasia ,  ambiguous genitalia )  .
dent disease type 1 is a type of dent disease with predominantly renal manifestations .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpgr gene .
a congenital condition characterized by the absence of hair on the scalp or entire body .
intestinal pseudo - obstruction is a condition characterized by impairment of the muscle contractions that move food through the digestive tract .
x - linked intellectual disability - plagiocephaly syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  brachycephaly ,  plagiocephaly ,  prominent forehead and coarse facial features .
any x - linked nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the smpx gene .
type 1 lissencephaly due to doublecortin  ( dcx )  gene mutations is a semi - dominant x - linked disease characterised by intellectual deficiency and seizures that are more severe in male patients .
any congenital stationary night blindness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacna1f gene .
x - linked immunoneurologic disorder is characterized by immune deficiency and neurological disorders in females ,  and by neonatal death in males .
female restricted epilepsy with intellectual disability is a rare x - linked epilepsy syndrome characterized by febrile or afebrile seizures  ( mainly tonic - clonic ,  but also absence ,  myoclonic ,  and atonic )  starting in the first years of life and ,  in most cases ,  developmental delay and intellectual disability of variable severity .
x - linked cerebral adrenoleukodystrophy  ( x - cald )  ,  a subtype of x - linked adrenoleukodystrophy  ( x - ald )  ,  is a peroxisomal disease characterized by severe inflammatory demyelination in the brain ,  and often associated with adrenal insufficiency .
x - linked form of spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il1rapl1 gene .
mehmo syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy ,  microcephaly ,  hypogenitalism ,  and obesity .
a retinitis pigmentosa that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region xq26 - q27 .
a x - linked condition characterized by underdevelopment of the adrenal gland and adrenal insufficiency caused by mutation ( s )  in the nr0b1 gene ,  resulting in decreased activity of the nuclear receptor protein dax1 ,  which may be associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
simpson - golabi - behmel syndrome  ( sgbs )  type 2 is an extremely rare and severe ,  early - lethal form of sgbs ,  an overgrowth - multiple anomalies syndrome ,  characterized by hydrops fetalis ,  macrocephaly ,  facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism ,  low - set ,  posteriorly angulated ears ,  short and broad nose with anteverted nares ,  prominent philtrum ,  large mouth with thin upper vermilion border ,  high - arched and cleft palate )  ,  short neck ,  redundant skin ,  skeletal defects  ( involving upper and lower limbs )  ,  hypoplastic nails ,  gastrointestinal and genitourinary anomalies ,  hypotonia and neurologic impairment .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tspan7 gene .
x - linked lissencephaly with abnormal genitalia  ( xlag )  is a severe neurological disorder that only manifests in genotypic males and includes lissencephaly with posterior - to - anterior gradient and only moderate increase in thickness of the cortex ,  absent corpus callosum ,  neonatal - onset severe epilepsy ,  hypothalamic dysfunction including defective temperature regulation ,  and ambiguous genitalia with micropenis and cryptorchidism .
coats disease  ( cd )  is an idiopathic disorder characterized by retinal telangiectasia with deposition of intraretinal or subretinal exudates ,  potentially leading to retinal detachment and unilateral blindness .
syndromic x - linked intellectual disability 7 ,  also called mrxs7 ,  is characterized by x - linked intellectual deficit ,  obesity ,  hypogonadism ,  and tapering fingers .
x - linked myotubular myopathy - abnormal genitalia syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly ,  partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome x ,  characterized by a combination of clinical manifestations of x - linked myotubular myopathy and a 46 , xy disorder of sex development .
hsd10 disease ,  atypical type is a clinical subtype of hsd10 disease ,  a rare neurometabolic disorder .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  bieganski type is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by infantile - onset ,  progressive ,  multiple skeletal deformities in association with slowly progressive central and peripheral neurodegeneration .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  shashi type is characterised by moderate intellectual deficit ,  obesity ,  macroorchidism and a characteristic facies  ( large ears ,  a prominent lower lip and puffy eyelids )  .
christianson syndrome is a very rare form of syndromic intellectual deficit characterized by microcephaly ,  severe developmental delay or regression ,  hypotonia ,  abnormal movements ,  and early - onset seizures .
terminal osseous dysplasia - pigmentary defects syndrome is characterised by malformation of the hands and feet ,  pigmentary skin lesions on the face and scalp and digital fibromatosis .
glycogen storage disease due to lamp - 2  ( lysosomal - associated membrane protein 2 )  deficiency is a lysosomal glycogen storage disease characterised by severe cardiomyopathy and variable degrees of muscle weakness ,  frequently associated with intellectual deficit .
distal xq duplications refer to chromosomal disorders resulting from involvement of the long arm of the x chromosome  ( xq )  .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  armfield type is characterised by intellectual deficiency ,  short stature ,  seizures ,  and small hands and feet .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  abidi type is characterized by x - linked intellectual deficit and mild variable manifestations ,  including short stature ,  small head circumference ,  sloping forehead ,  hearing loss ,  abnormally shaped ears ,  and small testes .
a hereditary spastic paraplegia that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region xq11 .2 .
adrenomyodystrophy is an extremely rare genetic endocrine disease characterized by primary adrenal insufficiency ,  dystrophic myopathy ,  hepatic steatosis ,  severe psychomotor delay ,  megalocornea ,  failure to thrive ,  chronic constipation ,  and terminal bladder ectasia which can lead to death .
this syndrome is an immunodeficiency syndrome characterized by recurrent major bacterial infections ,  severe congenital neutropenia ,  and monocytopenia .
this syndrome is characterized by severe immunodeficiency ,  osteopetrosis ,  lymphedema and anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia .
any fg syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the flna gene .
lesch - nyhan syndrome  ( lns )  is the most severe form of hypoxanthine - guanine phosphoribosyltransferase  ( hprt )  deficiency ,  a hereditary disorder of purine metabolism ,  and is associated with uric acid overproduction  ( uao )  ,  neurological troubles ,  and behavioral problems .
kelley - seegmiller syndrome  ( kss )  is the mildest form of hypoxanthine - guanine phosphoribosyltransferase  ( hprt )  deficiency ,  a hereditary disorder of purine metabolism ,  and is associated with uric acid overproduction  ( uao )  leading to urolithiasis ,  and early - onset gout .
hypomelanosis of ito  ( hi )  is a multisystemic neurocutaneous condition with hypopigmented skin lesions along the blaschko lines .
colobomatous microphthalmia is a developmental disorder of the eye characterized by unilateral or bilateral microphthalmia associated with ocular coloboma .
x - linked creatine transporter deficiency  ( crtr - d )  is a creatine deficiency syndrome characterized clinically by global developmental delay /  intellectual disability  ( dd / id )  with prominent speech / language delay ,  autistic behavior and seizures .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  cabezas type is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  muscle wasting ,  short stature ,  a prominent lower lip ,  small testes ,  kyphosis and joint hyperextensibility .
an x - linked condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the gata1 gene ,  encoding erythroid transcription factor .
osteopathia striata with cranial sclerosis  ( os - cs )  is a bone dysplasia characterized by longitudinal striations of the metaphyses of the long bones ,  sclerosis of the craniofacial bones ,  macrocephaly ,  cleft palate and hearing loss .
becker muscular dystrophy  ( bmd )  is a neuromuscular disease characterized by progressive muscle wasting and weakness due to degeneration of skeletal ,  smooth and cardiac muscle .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the acsl4 gene .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  due to gamma chain deficiency ,  also called scid - x1 ,  is a form of scid characterized by severe and recurrent infections ,  associated with diarrhea and failure to thrive .
any fg syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cask gene .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  hedera type is a rare x - linked intellectual disability syndrome characterized by an onset in infancy of delayed motor and speech milestones ,  generalized tonic - clonic seizures and drop attacks ,  and mild to moderate intellectual disability .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ofd1 gene .
atkin - flaitz syndrome is characterised by moderate to severe intellectual deficit ,  short stature ,  macrocephaly ,  and characteristic facies .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the arhgef6 gene .
hsd10 disease is a rare ,  life - threatening neurometabolic disease characterized by a progressive neurodegenerative course ,  epilepsy ,  retinopathy and progressive cardiomyopathy .
alpha - thalassemia - myelodysplastic syndrome  ( atmds )  is an acquired form of alpha - thalassemia characterized by a myelodysplastic syndrome  ( mds )  or more rarely a myeloproliferative disease  ( mpd )  associated with hemoglobin h disease  ( hbh )  .
primary ciliary dyskinesia  -  retinitis pigmentosa is an x - linked ciliary dysfunction of both respiratory epithelium and photoreceptors of the retina leading to ocular disorders  ( mild night blindness ,  constriction of the visual field ,  and scotopic and photopic erg responses reduced to 30 - 60% )  associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia manifestations  ( chronic bronchorrhea with bronchoectasis and chronic sinusitis )  and sensorineural hearing loss .
an x - linked syndromic intellectual disability characterised by moderate intellectual deficit ,  marked cubitus valgus ,  mild microcephaly ,  a short philtrum ,  deep - set eyes ,  downslanting palpebral fissures and multiple nevi .
agenesis of the corpus callosum  -  intellectual deficit  -  coloboma  -  micrognathia syndrome is a developmental anomalies syndrome characterized by coloboma of the iris and optic nerve ,  facial dysmorphism  ( high forehead ,  microretrognathia ,  low - set ears )  ,  intellectual deficit ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum  ( acc )  ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  skeletal anomalies and short stature .
severe motor and intellectual disabilities - sensorineural deafness - dystonia syndrome is a rare genetic neurological disorder characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  failure to thrive ,  infantile onset of sensorineural deafness ,  severe global developmental delay or absent psychomotor development ,  paraplegia or quadriplegia with dystonia and pyramidal signs ,  microcephaly ,  ocular abnormalities  ( strabismus ,  optic atrophy )  ,  mildly dysmorphic features  ( deep - set eyes ,  prominent nasal bridge ,  micrognathia )  ,  seizures and abnormalities of brain morphology  ( hypomyelinating white matter changes ,  cerebral atrophy )  .
oral - facial - digital syndrome ,  type 8 is characterized by tongue lobulation ,  hypoplasia of the epiglottis ,  median cleft upper lip ,  broad or bifid nasal tip ,  hypertelorism or telecanthus ,  bilateral preaxial and postaxial polydactyly ,  abnormal tibiae and / or radii ,  duplication of the halluces ,  short stature ,  and mild intellectual deficit .
x - linked intellectual deficit - cerebellar hypoplasia ,  also known as ophn1 syndrome ,  is a rare syndromic form of cerebellar dysgenesis characterized by moderate to severe intellectual deficit and cerebellar abnormalities .
x - linked distal spinal muscular atrophy type 3 is a rare distal hereditary motor neuropathy characterized by slowly progressive atrophy and weakness of distal muscles of hands and feet with normal deep tendon reflexes or absent ankle reflexes and minimal or no sensory loss ,  sometimes mild proximal weakness in the legs and feet and hand deformities in males .
x - linked epilepsy - learning disabilities - behavior disorders syndrome is characterized by epilepsy ,  learning difficulties ,  macrocephaly ,  and aggressive behaviour .
a class of genetic disorders resulting in intellectual disability that is associated either with mutations of genes located on the x chromosome or aberrations in the structure of the x chromosome  ( sex chromosome aberrations )  .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the znf81 gene .
any primary ovarian failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bmp15 gene .
any primary ovarian failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the diaph2 gene .
fanconi anemia caused by mutations of the fancb gene .
deafness - intellectual disability syndrome ,  martin - probst type is characterised by severe bilateral deafness ,  intellectual deficit ,  umbilical hernia and abnormal dermatoglyphics .
allan - herndon - dudley syndrome  ( ahds )  is an x - linked intellectual disability syndrome with neuromuscular involvement characterized by infantile hypotonia ,  muscular hypoplasia ,  spastic paraparesis with dystonic / athetoic movements ,  and severe cognitive deficiency .
nephrogenic syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis  ( nsiad )  is a rare genetic disorder of water balance ,  closely resembling the far more frequent syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic secretion  ( siad )  ,  and characterized by euvolemic hypotonic hyponatremia due to impaired free water excretion and undetectable or low plasma arginine vasopressin  ( avp )  levels .
any x - linked hypophosphatemic rickets in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clcn5 gene .
dent disease type 2 is a type of dent disease in which patients have the manifestations of dent disease type 1 associated with extra - renal features .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pak3 gene .
a benign form of phosphorylase kinase deficiency caused by variants in phka1 ,  characterized by exercise intolerance ,  myalgia ,  muscle cramps ,  myoglobinuria ,  and progressive muscle weakness .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zdhhc15 gene .
x - linked intellectual disability - retinitis pigmentosa syndrome is characterized by moderate intellectual deficit and severe ,  early - onset retinitis pigmentosa .
shox - related short stature is a primary bone dysplasia characterized by a height that is 2 standard deviations below the corresponding mean height for a given age ,  sex and population group ,  in the absence of obvious skeletal abnormalities and other diseases and with normal developmental milestones .
an x - linked inherited form of cornelia de lange syndrome caused by mutations in the smc1a gene mapped to chromosome xp11 .22 .
aland island eye disease  ( aied )  is an x - linked recessive retinal disease characterized by fundus hypopigmentation ,  decrased visual acuity ,  nystagmus ,  astigmatism ,  progressive axial myopia ,  defective dark adaptation and protanopia .
any primary ovarian failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pof1b gene .
a retinitis pigmentosa that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region xq28 .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  brooks type is a rare x - linked intellectual disability syndrome characterized by failure to thrive ,  speech delay ,  intellectual disability ,  muscle hypotonia ,  spastic diplegia ,  optic atrophy with myopia ,  and distinct facial features  ( including triangular face ,  bifrontal narrowness ,  deeply set eyes ,  low - set / cupped ears ,  prominent nose ,  short philtrum ,  and thin upper lip with tented morphology )  that can be evident from birth .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of an axonal sensory and autonomic neuropathy with hearing loss .
monoamine oxidase - a deficiency is a very rare recessive x - linked biogenic amine metabolism disorder characterized clinically by mild intellectual deficit ,  impulsive aggressiveness ,  and sometimes violent behavior and presenting from childhood .
fragile x - associated tremor / ataxia syndrome  ( fxtas )  is a rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by adult - onset progressive intention tremor and gait ataxia .
a genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the fmr1 gene which is responsible for the expression of the fragile x mental retardation 1 protein .
a condition of decreased or absent presence of baculoviral iap repeat - containing protein 4 .
any x - linked mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ikbkg gene .
any invasive pneumococcal disease ,  recurrent isolated in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ikbkg gene .
any x - linked mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cybb gene .
ocular albinism with late - onset sensorineural deafness  ( oasd )  ,  is a rare ,  x - linked inherited type of ocular albinism described in one african kindred  ( 7 males over 3 generations )  to date ,  characterized by severe visual impairment ,  translucent pale - blue iridies ,  a reduction in the retinal pigment and moderately severe deafness by middle age  ( fourth to fifth decade of life )  .
phosphoglycerate kinase  ( pgk )  deficiency is a metabolic disorder characterized by variable combinations of nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia ,  myopathy ,  and various central nervous system abnormalities .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the brwd3 gene .
phosphoribosylpyrophosphate  ( prpp )  synthetase superactivity is an x - linked disorder of purine metabolism associated with hyperuricemia and hyperuricosuria ,  comprised of two forms: an early - onset severe form characterized by gout ,  urolithiasis ,  and neurodevelopmental anomalies  ( severe prpp synthetase superactivity )  and a mild late - onset form with no neurologic involvement  ( mild prpp synthetase superactivity )  .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdkl5 gene .
an x - linked recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the mecp2 gene ,  encoding methyl - cpg - binding protein 2 .
any x - linked syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the upf3b gene .
x - linked scapuloperoneal muscular dystrophy  ( x - linked spmd )  is a skeletal muscle disease characterized by late onset ,  co - occurrence of scapular and peroneal muscle weakness ,  and scapular winging .
x - linked myopathy with postural muscle atrophy is a rare progressive muscular dystrophy characterized by an adult - onset scapulo - axio - peroneal myopathy .
a syndromic x - linked intellectual disability characterized by moderate intellectual disability with variable occurrence of asthenic body habitus ,  dysmorphic features ,  autistic features ,  macrocephaly ,  seizures ,  myoclonic jerks ,  and hyporeflexia that has material basis in mutation in the gria3 gene on chromosome xq25 .
albinism - deafness syndrome  ( adfn )  is characterised by congenital nerve deafness and piebaldness with no ocular albinism .
x - linked non progressive cerebellar ataxia is a rare hereditary ataxia characterized by delayed early motor development ,  severe neonatal hypotonia ,  non - progressive ataxia and slow eye movements ,  presenting normal cognitive abilities and absence of pyramidal signs .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  turner type is characterised by moderate to severe intellectual deficit in boys and moderate intellectual deficit in girls .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of toe syndactyly ,  facial dysmorphism including telecanthus  ( abnormal distance between the eyes )  and a broad nasal tip ,  urogenital malformations and anal atresia .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  shrimpton type is characterised by the association of severe intellectual deficit with microcephaly ,  strabismus and short stature .
x - linked intellectual disability - craniofacioskeletal syndrome is a rare ,  hereditary ,  syndromic intellectual disability characterized by craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities in association with mild intellectual disability in females and early postnatal lethality in males .
najm type x - linked intellectual deficit is a rare cerebellar dysgenesis syndrome characterized by variable clinical manifestations ranging from mild intellectual deficit with or without congenital nystagmus ,  to severe cognitive impairment associated with cerebellar and pontine hypoplasia / atrophy and abnormalities of cortical development .
x - linked spastic paraplegia type 34 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by late childhood -  to early adulthood - onset of slowly progressive spastic paraplegia with spastic gait and lower limb hyperreflexia ,  brisk tendon reflexes and ankle clonus .
x - linked form of erythropoietic protoporphyria .
x - linked agammaglobulinemia  ( xla )  is a clinically variable form of isolated agammaglobulinemia ,  an inherited immunodeficiency disorder ,  and is characterized in affected males by recurrent bacterial infections during infancy .
an alzheimer's disease that is characterized by an associated with a risk allele in in the pcdh11x gene on chromosome xq21 .3 .
lisch epithelial corneal dystrophy  ( lecd )  is a very rare form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by feather - shaped opacities and microcysts in the corneal epithelium arranged in a band - shaped and sometimes whorled pattern ,  occasionally with impaired vision .
x - linked endothelial corneal dystrophy  ( xecd )  is a rare subtype of posterior corneal dystrophy characterized by congenital ground glass corneal clouding or a diffuse corneal haze ,  and blurred vision in male patients .
a syndromic x - linked intellectual disability characterized by intellectual disability and marfanoid habitus that has material basis in mutation in the zdhhc9 gene on chromosome xq26 .1 .
a form of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria  ( see this term )  ,  an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  lethargy ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual deficit and seizures .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the syp gene .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the znf711 gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ofd1 gene .
a hemostatic disorder characterized by a tendency to thrombosis that has x - linked recessive inheritance ,  and can be caused by a gain - of - function mutation in the gene encoding factor ix  ( f9 )  .
synovial sarcoma is an aggressive soft tissue sarcoma ,  occurring most commonly in adolescents and young adults  ( 15 to 40 years )  ,  usually localized near the large joints of the extremities but also in the head and neck ,  mediastinum and viscera  ( lung ,  kidney etc )  ,  clinically presenting as a deep seated swelling or a painful mass often with an initial indolent course and is characterized by its local invasiveness and a propensity to metastasize .
severe x - linked mitochondrial encephalomyopathy is an extremely rare mitochondrial respiratory chain disease resulting in a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by psychomotor delay ,  hypotonia ,  areflexia ,  muscle weakness and wasting in the two patients reported to date .
any paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the piga gene .
x - linked cone dysfunction syndrome with myopia is characterised by moderate to high myopia associated with astigmatism and deuteranopia .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rps6ka3 gene .
moyamoya angiopathy  -  short stature  -  facial dysmorphism  -  hypergonadotropic hypogonadism is a very rare ,  hereditary ,  neurological ,  dysmorphic syndrome characterized by moyamoya disease ,  short stature of postnatal onset ,  and stereotyped facial dysmorphism .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gdi1 gene .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dlg3 gene .
x - linked immunodeficiency with magnesium defect ,  epstein - barr virus infection and neoplasia is a rare combined t and b cell immunodeficiency characterized by recurrent sinopulmonary and viral infections ,  persistent elevated epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  viremia and increased susceptibility to ebv - associated b - cell lymphoproliferative disorders .
ogden syndrome is a rare ,  genetic progeroid syndrome characterized by a variable phenotype including postnatal growth delay ,  severe global developmental delay ,  hypotonia ,  non - specific dysmorphic facies with aged appearance and cryptorchidism ,  as well as cardiac arrthymias and skeletal anomalies .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ubqln2 gene .
intellectual disability - alacrima - achalasia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic intellectual disability syndrome characterized by delayed motor and cognitive development ,  absence or severe delay in speech development ,  intellectual disability ,  and alacrima .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  nascimento type is a rare x - linked intellectual disability syndrome characterized by intellectual disability  ( with severe speech impairment )  ,  a myxedematous appearance ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( including large head ,  synophrys ,  prominent supraorbital ridges ,  almond - shaped and deep - set eyes ,  large ears ,  wide mouth with everted lower lip and downturned lip corners )  ,  low posterior hairline ,  short ,  broad neck ,  marked general hirsutism and abnormal hair whorls ,  skin changes  ( e .g .
a syndromic x - linked intellectual disability characterized by moderate intellectual disability ,  seizures ,  dysmorphic facial features and in some older patients slowly progressive unsteady gait and progressive weakness that has material basis in variation in the chromosomal region xq21 .33 - q23 .
x - linked dominant chondrodysplasia chassaing - lacombe type is a rare genetic bone disorder characterized by chondrodysplasia ,  intrauterine growth retardation  ( iugr )  ,  hydrocephaly and facial dysmorphism in the affected males .
x - linked cerebral - cerebellar - coloboma syndrome is a rare ,  genetic syndrome with a cerebellar malformation as major feature characterized by cerebellar vermis hypo -  or aplasia ,  ventriculomegaly ,  agenesis of corpus callosum and abnormalities of the brainstem and cerebral cortex in association with ocular coloboma .
any multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome - intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the piga gene .
xq27 .3q28 duplication syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by short stature ,  hypogonadism ,  developmental delay and facial dysmorphism .
a syndromic x - linked intellectual disability characterized by intellectual disability ,  delayed psychomotor development ,  seizures ,  large joint contractures ,  cardiac abnormalities ,  and abnormal positioning of the thumbs that has material basis in mutation in the clic2 gene on chromosome xq28 .
any microphthalmia with linear skin defects syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cox7b gene .
an x - linked recessive syndrome caused by loss - of - function mutation ( s )  in igsf1 ,  encoding immunoglobulin superfamily member 1 .
beta - propeller protein - associated neurodegeneration  ( bpan )  ,  also known as static encephalopathy of childhood with neurodegeneration in adulthood ,  is a rare form of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  characterized by early - onset developmental delay and further neurological deterioration in early adulthood .
the maat - kievit - brunner type of ohdo syndrome is a rare condition characterized by intellectual disability and distinctive facial features .
slc35a2 - cdg is a congenital disorder of glycosylation characterized by severe or profound global developmental delay ,  early epileptic encephalopathy ,  muscular hypotonia ,  dysmorphic features  ( coarse facies ,  thick eyebrows ,  broad nasal bridge ,  thick lips ,  inverted nipples )  ,  variable ocular defects and brain morphological abnormalities on brain mri  ( cerebral atrophy ,  thin corpus callosum )  .
x - linked charcot - marie - tooth disease type 6 is a rare ,  genetic ,  principally axonal ,  peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by an x - linked dominant inheritance pattern and the childhood - onset of slowly progressive ,  moderate to severe ,  distal muscle weakness and atrophy of the lower extremities ,  as well as distal ,  panmodal sensory abnormalities ,  bilateral foot deformities  ( pes cavus ,  clawed toes )  ,  absent ankle reflexes and gait abnormalities  ( steppage gait )  .
swelling involving the deep dermis ,  subcutaneous ,  or submucosal tissues ,  representing localized edema .
x - linked parkinsonism - spasticity syndrome is a rare genetic neurological disorder characterized by parkinsonian features  ( including resting or action tremor ,  cogwheel rigidity ,  hypomimia and bradykinesia )  associated with variably penetrant spasticity ,  hyperactive deep tendon reflexes and babinski sign .
x - linked mental retardation cantagrel type is characterised by marked neonatal hypotonia ,  progressive quadriparesia ,  severely delayed developmental milestones  ( walking at 3 years of age )  ,  gastroesophageal reflux ,  stereotypic movements of the hands ,  esotropia and infantile autism .
any x - linked nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col4a6 gene .
x - linked colobomatous microphthalmia - microcephaly - intellectual disability - short stature syndrome is a rare syndromic microphthalmia disorder characterized by microphthalmia with coloboma  ( which may involve the iris ,  cilary body ,  choroid ,  retina and / or optic nerve )  ,  microcephaly ,  short stature and intellectual disability .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the usp9x gene .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kif4a gene .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mid2 gene .
 ( xq28 )  .
any pituitary gland adenoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gpr101 gene .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tsr2 gene .
any microphthalmia with linear skin defects syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ndufb11 gene .
any nonphotosensitive trichothiodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rnf113a gene .
x - linked intellectual disability - short stature - overweight syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by borderline to severe intellectual disability ,  speech delay ,  short stature ,  elevated body mass index ,  a pattern of truncal obesity  ( reported in older males )  ,  and variable neurologic features  ( e .g .
an inherited condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the ddx3x gene ,  encoding atp - dependent rna helicase ddx3x .
any ritscher - schinzel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccdc22 gene .
any x - linked syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the taf1 gene .
macrocephaly - intellectual disability - left ventricular non compaction syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disability characterized by motor and cognitive developmental delay with language impairment ,  macrocephaly ,  hypotonia ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( including long face ,  slanting palpebral fissures and prominent ,  flattened nose )  and left ventricular noncompaction cardiomyopathy .
any x - linked syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the usp9x gene .
any bartter syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the maged2 gene .
any primary immunodeficiency disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atp6ap1 gene .
intellectual disability - balding - patella luxation - acromicria syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  patella luxations ,  acromicria ,  hypogonadism ,  facial dysmorphism  ( including midface hypoplasia and premature frontotemporal balding )  .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rlim gene .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the klhl15 gene .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the frmpd4 gene .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the usp27x gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pih1d3 gene .
wiskott - aldrich syndrome  ( was )  is a primary immunodeficiency disease characterized by microthrombocytopenia ,  eczema ,  infections and an increased risk for autoimmune manifestations and malignancies .
x - linked alpha thalassaemia mental retardation  ( atr - x )  syndrome in males is associated with profound developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism ,  genital abnormalities and alpha thalassaemia .
x - linked form of alport syndrome .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the amelx gene .
an amelogenesis imperfecta associated with mutation in a gene in the xq22 - q28 region .
x - linked reticulate pigmentary disorder is an extremely rare skin disease described in only four families to date and characterized in males by diffuse reticulate brown hyperpigmentated skin lesions developing in early childhood and a variety of systemic manifestations  ( recurrent pneumonia ,  corneal opacification ,  gastrointestinal inflammation ,  urethral stricture ,  failure to thrive ,  hypohidrosis ,  digital clubbing ,  and unruly hair and flared eyebrows )  ,  while in females ,  there is only cutaneous involvement with the development in early childhood of localized brown hyperpigmented skin lesions following the lines of blaschko .
x - linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia  ( xlsa - a )  is a rare syndromic ,  inherited form of sideroblastic anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abcb7 gene and is characterized by mild to moderate anemia  ( with hypochromia and microcytosis )  and early - onset ,  non -  or slowly progressive spinocerebellar ataxia .
fabry disease  ( fd )  is a progressive ,  inherited ,  multisystemic lysosomal storage disease characterized by specific neurological ,  cutaneous ,  renal ,  cardiovascular ,  cochleo - vestibular and cerebrovascular manifestations .
microphthalmia - ankyloblepharon - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by microphthalmia ,  ankyloblepharon and intellectual deficit .
loss of or impaired ability to smell .
x - linked spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 is a form of spinocerebellar degeneration characterized by onset in infancy of hypotonia ,  ataxia ,  sensorineural deafness ,  developmental delay ,  esotropia ,  and optic atrophy ,  and by a progressive course leading to death in childhood .
contractures  -  ectodermal dysplasia  -  cleft lip / palate is an ectodermal dyplasia syndrome characterized by severe arthrogryposis ,  multiple ectodermal dysplasia features ,  cleft lip / palate ,  facial dysmorphism ,  growth deficiency and a moderate delay of psychomotor development .
a rare form of spinal muscular atrophy characterized by the neonatal onset of severe hypotonia ,  areflexia ,  profound weakness ,  multiple congenital contractures ,  facial dysmorphic features  ( myopathic face with open ,  tent - shaped mouth )  ,  cryptorchidism ,  and mild skeletal abnormalities  ( i .e .
lethal ataxia with deafness and optic atrophy  ( also known as arts syndrome )  is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  early - onset hypotonia ,  ataxia ,  delayed motor development ,  hearing impairment and loss of vision due to optic atrophy .
spinocerebellar ataxia ,  x - linked ,  type 4 is characterised by ataxia ,  pyramidal tract signs and adult - onset dementia .
bazex - dupre - christol syndrome is a rare genodermatosis with a predisposition to early - onset basal cell carcinomas .
borjeson - forssman - lehmann syndrome  ( bfls )  is a rare x - linked obesity syndrome characterized by intellectual deficit ,  truncal obesity ,  characteristic facial features ,  hypogonadism ,  tapered fingers and short toes .
mononen - karnes - senac syndrome is characterized by skeletal dysplasia associated with finger malformations  ( brachydactyly with short and abducted thumbs ,  short index fingers ,  and markedly short and abducted great toes )  ,  variable mild short stature ,  and mild bowleg with overgrowth of the fibula .
x - linked mandibulofacial dysostosis is an extremely rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome that is characterized by microcephaly ,  malar hypoplasia with downslanting palpebral fissures ,  highly arched palate ,  apparently low - set and protruding ears ,  micrognathia ,  short stature ,  bilateral hearing loss ,  and learning disability .
bullous dystrophy ,  macular type is a genetic disorder characterised by formation of bullae without traumatic origin ,  alopecia ,  hyperpigmentation ,  acrocyanosis ,  short stature ,  microcephaly ,  intellectual deficit ,  tapering fingers and nail abnormalities .
any dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dmd gene .
barth syndrome  ( bths )  is an inborn error of phospholipid metabolism characterized by dilated cardiomyopathy  ( dcm )  ,  skeletal myopathy ,  neutropenia ,  growth delay and organic aciduria .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nhs gene .
nance - horan syndrome  ( nhs )  is characterized by the association in male patients of congenital cataracts with microcornea ,  dental anomalies and facial dysmorphism .
charcot - marie - tooth neuropathy that is inherited in an x - linked manner ,  and is associated with mutation ( s )  in the gjb1 gene ,  encoding gap junction beta - 1 protein .
x - linked charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 is a rare ,  genetic ,  peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by an x - linked recessive inheritance pattern and the infantile -  to childhood - onset of progressive ,  distal muscle weakness and atrophy  ( more prominent in the lower extremities than in the upper extremities )  ,  pes cavus ,  and absent tendon reflexes .
x - linked charcot - marie - tooth disease type 3 is a rare ,  genetic ,  peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by an x - linked recessive inheritance pattern and the childhood -  to adolescent - onset of progressive ,  distal muscle weakness and atrophy  ( beginning in the lower extremities and then affecting the upper extremities )  ,  as well as distal ,  pansensory loss in the upper and lower extremities ,  pes cavus ,  and absent or reduced distal tendon reflexes .
abruzzo - erikson syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by a cleft palate ,  ocular coloboma ,  hypospadias ,  mixed conductive - sensorineural hearing loss ,  short stature ,  and radio - ulnar synostosis .
brachytelephalangic chondrodysplasia punctata  ( bcdp )  is a form of nonrhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata ,  a primary bone dysplasia ,  characterized by hypoplasia of the distal phalanges of the fingers ,  nasal hypoplasia ,  epiphyseal stippling appearing in the first year of life ,  and mild and nonrhizomelic shortness of the long bones .
x - linked form of chondrodysplasia punctata .
choroideremia  ( chm )  is an x - linked chorioretinal dystrophy characterized by progressive degeneration of the choroid ,  retinal pigment epithelium  ( rpe )  and retina .
choroideremia - deafness - obesity syndrome is an x - linked retinal dystrophy characterized by choroideremia ,  causing in affected males progressive nyctalopia and eventual central blindness .
masa syndrome  ( mental retardation ,  aphasia ,  spastic paraplegia ,  adducted thumbs )  is a historical term used to describe a phenotype now considered to be part of the x - linked l1 clinical spectrum  ( l1 syndrome )  .
coffin - lowry syndrome  ( cls )  is a rare genetic neurological disorder characterized by psychomotor and growth retardation ,  facial dysmorphism ,  digit abnormalities ,  and progressive skeletal changes .
colonic atresia is a congenital intestinal malformation resulting in a non - latent segment of the colon and characterized by lower intestinal obstruction manifesting with abdominal distention and failure to pass meconium in newborns .
blue cone monochromatism  ( bcm )  is a recessive x - linked disease characterized by severely impaired color discrimination ,  low visual acuity ,  nystagmus ,  and photophobia ,  due to dysfunction of the red  ( l )  and green  ( m )  cone photoreceptors .
deuteranopia is a type of color vision deficiency where the green photoreceptors are absent .
protanopia is a severe type of color vision deficiency caused by the complete absence of red retinal photoreceptors .
aicardi syndrome is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder defined by the triad of agenesis of the corpus callosum  ( total or partial )  ,  typical chorioretinal lacunae and infantile spasms that affect almost exclusively females .
x - linked complicated corpus callosum dysgenesis is a historical term used to describe a phenotype now considered to be part of the l1 clinical spectrum  ( l1 syndrome )  .
craniofrontonasal dysplasia is an x - linked malformation syndrome characterized by facial asymmetry  ( particularly orbital )  ,  body asymmetry ,  midline defects  ( hypertelorism ,  frontal bossing ,  broad grooved or bifid nasal tip ,  cleft lip and / or palate ,  high arched palate )  ,  skeletal anomalies  ( clavicle pseudoarthrosis ,  coronal craniosynostosis ,  various digital and limb anomalies including syndactyly ,  clinodactyly of the 5th finger ,  broad thumbs )  and ectodermal dysplasias  ( dental anomalies ,  grooved nails ,  wiry hair )  .
otopalatodigital syndrome type 2  ( opd2 )  is a severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder ,  and is characterized by dysmorphic facies ,  severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton ,  extraskeletal anomalies  ( including malformations of the brain ,  heart ,  genitourinary system ,  and intestine )  and poor survival .
occipital horn syndrome  ( ohs )  is a mild form of menkes disease  ( md )  ,  a syndrome characterized by progressive neurodegeneration and connective tissue disorders due to a copper transport defect .
x - linked dandy - walker malformation with intellectual disability ,  basal ganglia disease and seizures  ( xdibs )  ,  or pettigrew syndrome is a central nervous system malformation characterized by severe intellectual deficit ,  early hypotonia with progression to spasticity and contractures ,  choreoathetosis ,  seizures ,  dysmorphic face  ( long face with prominent forehead )  ,  and brain imaging abnormalities such as dandy - walker malformation ,  and iron deposition .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of congenital mixed hearing loss with perilymphatic gusher  ( gusher syndrome or dfn3 )  ,  hypogonadism and abnormal behavior .
x - linked mixed deafness with perilymphatic gusher ,  also known as x - linked deafness type 2 ,  is a rare form of non - syndromic genetic deafnesss affecting males and characterized by pathognomonic inner ear anomalies and conductive and profound sensorineural hearing loss .
mohr - tranebjaerg syndrome  ( mts )  is an x - linked recessive neurodegenerative syndrome characterized by clinical manifestations commencing with early childhood onset hearing loss ,  followed by adolescent onset progressive dystonia or ataxia ,  visual impairment from early adulthood onwards and dementia from the 4th decade onwards .
x - linked corneal dermoid  ( x - cnd )  is an exceedingly rare ,  benign ,  congenital ,  corneal tumor characterized by bilateral opacification of the cornea with superficial grayish layers and irregular raised whitish plaques ,  as well as fine blood vessels covering the central cornea ,  and intact peripheral corneal borders .no other ocular or systemic abnormality is noted .
immunodysregulation  -  polyendocrinopathy  -  enteropathy  -  x - linked  ( ipex )  syndrome is a severe congenital systemic autoimmune disease characterized by refractory diarrhea ,  endocrinopathies ,  cutaneous involvement ,  and infections .
x - linked form of dyggve - melchior - clausen disease .
x - linked form of dyskeratosis congenita .
an x - linked form of ectodermal dysplasia which results from mutations of the gene encoding ectodysplasin .
ehlers - danlos syndromes  ( eds )  form a heterogeneous group of hereditary connective tissue diseases characterized by joint hyperlaxity ,  cutaneous hyperelasticity and tissue fragility .
x - linked form of epidermodysplasia verruciformis .
any exudative vitreoretinopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ndp gene .
aarskog - scott syndrome  ( aas )  is a rare developmental disorder characterized by facial ,  limbs and genital features ,  and a disproportionate acromelic short stature .
any fg syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the med12 gene .
fingerprint body myopathy is a congenital benign muscle disorder characterised by congenital hypotonia and weakness and by the presence of numerous fingerprint bodies located at the periphery of the muscle fibers .
goltz syndrome or focal dermal hypoplasia is characterized by a polymorphic cutaneous disorder and highly variable anomalies affecting the eyes ,  teeth ,  skeleton and the central nervous ,  urinary ,  gastrointestinal and cardiovascular systems .
sertoli cell - only syndrome  ( sco syndrome )  is a cause of male infertility .
any glycogen storage disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the phka2 gene .
an instance of gynecomastia that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
hemophilia a is the most common form of hemophilia characterized by spontaneous or prolonged hemorrhages due to factor viii deficiency .
hemophilia b is a form of hemophilia characterized by spontaneous or prolonged hemorrhages due to factor ix deficiency .
x - linked visceral heterotaxy type 1 is a very rare form of heterotaxy that has only been reported in a few families .
holoprosencephaly - hypokinesia syndrome is an extremely rare and fatal central nervous system malformation occurring during embryogenesis ,  presenting prenatally with holoprosencephaly and fetal hypokinesia as major features .
a form of l1 syndrome caused by changes in the l1cam gene characterized by severe hydrocephalus mostly with prenatal onset ,  signs of intracranial hypertension ,  adducted thumbs ,  spasticity ,  and severe intellectual deficit .
this syndrome is characterised by infantile hypotonia followed by onset of ataxia ,  cataract and intellectual deficit by preschool age .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of glycerol kinase activity .
x - linked congenital generalized hypertrichosis is an extremely rare type of hypertrichosis lanuginosa congenita ,  a congenital skin disease ,  which is characterized by hair overgrowth on the entire body in males ,  and mild and asymmetric hair overgrowth in females .
this syndrome is characterized by hypergonadotropic hypogonadism ,  intellectual deficit ,  congenital skeletal anomalies involving the cervical spine and superior ribs ,  and diabetes mellitus .
hypoparathyroidism in which the inheritance is recessive and linked to the q26 - q27 region of the x chromosome .
x - linked hypophosphatemia  ( xlh )  is a hereditary renal phosphate - wasting disorder characterized by hypophosphatemia ,  rickets and / or osteomalacia ,  and diminished growth .
child syndrome  ( congenital hemidysplasia with ichthyosiform nevus and limb defects ,  cs )  is an x - linked dominant genodermatosis characterized by unilateral inflammatory and scaling skin lesions with ipsilateral visceral and limb anomalies .
recessive x - linked ichthyosis  ( rxli )  is a genodermatosis belonging to the mendelian disorders of cornification  ( medoc )  and characterized by generalized hyperkeratosis and scaling of the skin .
hyper igm syndrome type 1  ( higm - 1 )  is the x - linked variant of the hyper - igm syndrome .
x - linked lymphoproliferative disease is a hereditary immunodeficiency characterized ,  in the majority of cases ,  by an inadequate immune response to infection with the epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  .
incontinentia pigmenti  ( ip )  is a rare x - linked dominant multi - systemic ectodermal dysplasia usually lethal in males and presenting neonatally in females with a bullous rash along blashko's lines  ( bl )  followed by verrucous plaques evolving over time to hyperpigmented swirling patterns .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the arx gene .
the x - linked inherited form of kallmann syndrome caused by mutation of the kal1 gene mapped to chromosome xp22 .3 .
keratosis follicularis - dwarfism - cerebral atrophy syndrome is characterized by generalized keratosis follicularis ,  severe proportionate dwarfism and cerebral atrophy .
laryngeal abductor paralysis - intellectual disability syndrome is characterised by congenital and permanent laryngeal abductor paralysis ,  associated ,  in the majority of cases ,  with intellectual deficit .
the association of x - linked alport syndrome with leiomyomatosis of the esophagus ,  tracheobronchial tree or female genitals has been reported in more than 30 families .
a clonal  ( malignant )  hematopoietic disorder with an acute onset ,  affecting the bone marrow and the peripheral blood .
oculocerebrorenal syndrome of lowe  ( ocrl )  is a multisystem disorder characterized by congenital cataracts ,  glaucoma ,  intellectual disabilities ,  postnatal growth retardation and renal tubular dysfunction with chronic renal failure .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tex11 gene .
isolated congenital megalocornea is a genetic ,  non - syndromic developmental defect of the anterior eye segment characterized by bilateral enlargement of the corneal diameter  (  > 12 .5 mm )  and a deep anterior eye chamber ,  without an elevation in intraocular pressure .
melnick - needles syndrome  ( mns )  belongs to the otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder and is associated with a short stature ,  facial dysmorphism ,  osseous abnormalities involving the majority of the axial and appendicular skeleton resulting in impaired speech and masticatory problems .
menkes disease  ( md )  is a usually severe multisystemic disorder of copper metabolism ,  characterized by progressive neurodegeneration and marked connective tissue anomalies as well as typical sparse abnormal steely hair .
x - linked intellectual disability - seizures - psoriasis syndrome has been described in four male cousins .
renpenning syndrome is an x - linked intellectual disability syndrome  ( xlmr )  characterized by intellectual deficiency ,  microcephaly ,  leanness and mild short stature .
a rare neurological condition that is primarily characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability and dystonia of the hands .
the lujan - fryns syndrome or x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  with marfanoid habitus syndrome is a syndromic x - linked form of intellectual disability ,  associated with tall ,  marfanoid stature ,  distinct facial dysmorphism and behavioral problems .
an x - linked dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the iqsec2 gene ,  encoding iq motif and sec7 domain - containing protein 2 .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  wilson type is characterised by severe intellectual deficit with mutism ,  epilepsy ,  growth retardation and recurrent infections .
fraxe is a form of nonsyndromic x - linked mental retardation  ( ns - xlmr )  characterized by mild intellectual deficit .
any non - syndromic x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ftsj1 gene .
severe x - linked intellectual disability ,  gustavson type is characterised by x - linked mental retardation ,  microcephaly ,  optical atrophy with impaired vision or blindness ,  a severe hearing defect ,  facial dysmorphology ,  spasticity ,  epileptic seizures and restricted joint movement .
paraplegia - intellectual disability - hyperkeratosis syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  spasticity in the lower limbs  ( spastic paraplegia )  ,  pes cavus deformity of both feet ,  an abnormal gait ,  and palmar and plantar hyperkeratosis .
mental retardation - hypotonic facies covers a group of x - linked syndromes characterized by severe intellectual deficit and facial dysmorphism ,  with variable other features .
snyder - robinson syndrome  ( srs )  is an x - linked intellectual disability syndrome ,  including also hypotonia ,  an unsteady gait ,  osteoporosis ,  kyphoscoliosis and facial asymmetry .
wilson - turner syndrome  ( wts )  is a very rare x - linked multisystem genetic disease characterized by intellectual disability ,  truncal obesity ,  gynecomastia ,  hypogonadism ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  and short stature .
x - linked mental retardation ,  miles - carpenter type is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  microcephaly ,  exotropia and low digital arches .
this syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit associated with facial dysmorphism ,  patella luxation ,  and abnormal growth of the teeth .
skeletal dysplasia - intellectual disability syndrome combines skeletal anomalies  ( short stature ,  ridging of the metopic suture ,  fusion of cervical vertebrae ,  thoracic hemivertebrae ,  scoliosis ,  sacral hypoplasia and short middle phalanges )  and mild intellectual deficit .
syndactyly type 8 is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital limb malformation characterized by unilateral or bilateral fusion of the fourth and fifth metacarpals with no other associated abnomalities .
microphthalmia with linear skin defects syndrome  ( mls syndrome )  is a genetic condition that affects the eyes and skin .
mucopolysaccharidosis type 2  ( mps2 )  is a lysosomal storage disease leading to a massive accumulation of glycosaminoglycans and a wide variety of symptoms including distinctive coarse facial features ,  short stature ,  cardio - respiratory involvement and skeletal abnormalities .
duchenne muscular dystrophy  ( dmd )  is a neuromuscular disease characterized by rapidly progressive muscle weakness and wasting due to degeneration of skeletal ,  smooth and cardiac muscle .
x - linked form of emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy .
x - linked myotubular myopathy  ( xlmtm )  is an inherited neuromuscular disorder defined by numerous centrally placed nuclei on muscle biopsy and clinical features of a congenital myopathy .
x - linked myopathy with excessive autophagy is a childhood - onset x - linked myopathy characterised by slow progression of muscle weakness and unique histopathological findings .
n syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  deafness ,  ocular anomalies ,  t - cell leukaemia ,  cryptorchidism ,  hypospadias and spasticity .
a hereditary sensory neuropathy characterized by x - linked inheritance of slowly progressing neuropathy with onset in the first or second decade of life .
x - linked charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 is a rare ,  genetic ,  axonal ,  peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by an x - linked recessive inheritance pattern and the neonatal -  to early childhood - onset of severe ,  slowly progressive ,  distal muscle weakness and atrophy  ( in particular of the peroneal group )  ,  as well as sensory impairment  ( with the lower extremities being more affected than the upper extremities )  ,  pes cavus ,  areflexia and hammertoes .
any congenital stationary night blindness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nyx gene .
norrie disease  ( nd )  is a rare x - linked genetic vitreoretinal condition characterized by abnormal retinal development with congenital blindness .
any congenital nystagmus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the frmd7 gene .
early - onset x - linked optic atrophy is a rare form of hereditary optic atrophy ,  seen in only 4 families to date ,  with an onset in early childhood ,  characterized by progressive loss of visual acuity ,  significant optic nerve pallor and occasionally additional neurological manifestations ,  with females being unaffected .
x - linked charcot - marie - tooth disease type 5 is a rare ,  genetic ,  peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by an x - linked recessive inheritance pattern and the infancy -  to childhood - onset of: 1 )  progressive distal muscle weakness and atrophy  ( first appearing and more prominent in the lower extremities than the upper )  which usually manifests with foot drop and gait disturbance ,  2 )  bilateral ,  profound ,  prelingual sensorineural hearing loss and 3 )  progressive optic neuropathy .
oral - facial - digital syndrome type 1  ( ofd1 )  is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder in the ciliopathy group that is lethal in males and characterized by variable anomalies including external malformations  ( craniofacial and digital )  ,  and possible involvement of the central nervous system  ( cns )  and of viscera  ( kidneys ,  pancreas and ovaries )  in females .
ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency  ( otcd )  is a disorder of urea cycle metabolism and ammonia detoxification characterized by either a severe ,  neonatal - onset disease found almost exclusively in males ,  or later - onset  ( partial )  forms of the disease .
otopalatodigital syndrome type 1  ( opd1 )  is the mildest form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder ,  and is characterized by a generalized skeletal dysplasia ,  mild intellectual disability ,  conductive hearing loss ,  and typical facial anomalies .
any primary ovarian failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fmr1 gene .
w syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  epileptic seizures and facial dysmorphism .
early - onset parkinsonism with intellectual deficit is a basal ganglia disorder characterised by parkinsonian - type symptoms  ( postural changes ,  tremor ,  rigidity )  ,  megalencephaly and variable intellectual deficit .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of pierre robin sequence  ( retrognathia ,  cleft palate and glossoptosis )  with facial dysmorphism  ( high forehead with frontal bossing )  and digital anomalies  ( tapering fingers ,  hyperconvex nails ,  clinodactyly of the fifth fingers and short distal phalanges ,  finger - like thumbs and easily subluxated first metacarpophalangeal joints )  .growth and mental development were normal .
tarp syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by robin sequence  ( micrognathia ,  glossoptosis ,  and cleft palate )  ,  atrial septal defect ,  persistence of the left superior vena cava ,  and talipes equinovarus .
properdin deficiency is a rare ,  hereditary ,  primary immunodeficiency due to a complement cascade protein anomaly characterized by significantly increased susceptibility to neisseria species infections .
pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  is an x - linked leukodystrophy characterized by developmental delay ,  nystagmus ,  hypotonia ,  spasticity ,  and variable intellectual deficit .
x - linked form of lethal multiple pterygium syndrome .
pyruvate dehydrogenase e1 - alpha deficiency is the most frequent form of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  characterized by variable lactic acidosis ,  impaired psychomotor development ,  hypotonia and neurological dysfunction .
absent radius - anogenital anomalies syndrome is a rare ,  genetic limb reduction defects syndrome characterized by bilateral radial aplasia / hypoplasia manifesting with absent / short forearms in association with anogenital abnormalities  ( e .g .
partial androgen insensitivity syndrome  ( pais )  is a disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  distinct from complete ais  ( cais )  characterized by the presence of abnormal genital development in a 46 , xy individual with normal testis development and partial responsiveness to age - appropriate levels of androgens .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rp2 gene .
x - linked retinoschisis  ( xlrs )  is a genetic ocular disease that is characterized by reduced visual acuity in males due to juvenile macular degeneration .
rett syndrome  ( rtt )  is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder affecting the central nervous system .
scarf syndrome is characterised by the association of skeletal abnormalities ,  cutis laxa ,  craniostenosis ,  ambiguous genitalia ,  psychomotor retardation and facial abnormalities .
x - linked mental retardation ,  schimke type ,  is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  growth retardation with short stature ,  deafness and ophthalmoplegia .
simpson - golabi - behmel syndrome is a rare x - linked multiple congenital anomalies syndrome ,  characterized by pre -  and postnatal overgrowth ,  distinctive craniofacial features ,  variable congenital malformations ,  organomegaly and an increased tumor risk .
spastic paraparesis - deafness syndrome is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder characterised by spastic paraparesis  ( beginning at about 10 years of age )  and hearing deficits .
spastic paraplegia type 2  ( spg2 )  is an x - linked leukodystrophy characterized primarily by spastic gait and autonomic dysfunction .
kennedy's disease ,  also known as bulbospinal muscular atrophy  ( bsma )  ,  is a rare x - linked recessive motor neuron disease characterized by proximal and bulbar muscle wasting .
a split - hand / foot malformation that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region xq26 .
x - linked spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda is an inherited skeletal disorder that affects males only .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia ,  golden type is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by severe short stature ,  coarse facies ,  thoracolumbar kyphoscoliosis and enlarged joints with contractures .
any tooth agenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the eda gene .
pentalogy of cantrell  ( poc )  is a lethal multiple congenital anomalies syndrome ,  characterized by the presence of 5 major malformations: midline supraumbilical abdominal wall defect ,  lower sternal defect ,  diaphragmatic pericardial defect ,  anterior diaphragmatic defect and various intracardiac malformations .
beta - thalassemia  -  x - linked thrombocytopenia is a form of beta - thalassemia characterized by splenomegaly and petechiae ,  moderate thrombocytopenia ,  prolonged bleeding time due to platelet dysfunction ,  reticulocytosis and mild beta - thalassemia .
x - linked dystonia - parkinsonism  ( xdp )  is a neurodegenerative movement disorder characterized by adult - onset parkinsonism that is frequently accompanied by focal dystonia ,  which becomes generalized over time ,  and that has a highly variable clinical course .
torticollis - keloids - cryptorchidism - renal dysplasia syndrome is an extremely rare developmental defect during embryogenesis malformation syndrome characterized by congenital muscular torticollis associated with skin anomalies  ( such as multiple keloids ,  pigmented nevi ,  epithelioma )  ,  urogenital malformations  ( including cryptorchidism and hypospadias )  and renal dysplasia  ( e .g .
trigonocephaly - short stature - developmental delay syndrome is characterised by short stature ,  trigonocephaly and developmental delay .
ulnar hypoplasia - split foot syndrome is characterised by the association of severe ulnar hypoplasia ,  absence of fingers two to five ,  and split - foot .
van den bosch syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  choroideremia ,  acrokeratosis verruciformis ,  anhidrosis ,  and skeletal deformities .
intellectual disability - developmental delay - contractures syndrome ,  formerly known as wieacker - wolff syndrome ,  is a severe x - linked recessive neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by severe contractures  ( arthrogryposis )  and intellectual disability .
wildervanck syndrome is characterized by the triad of cervical vertebral fusion  ( klippel - feil anomaly )  ,  bilateral abducens palsy with retracted eyes  ( duane syndrome )  and congenital perceptive deafness .
y - linked form of retinitis pigmentosa .
46 , xy complete gonadal dysgenesis  ( 46 , xy cgd )  is a disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  associated with anomalies in gonadal development that result in the presence of female external and internal genitalia despite the 46 , xy karyotype .
46 , xx testicular disorder of sex development  ( 46 , xx testicular dsd )  is characterized by male external genitalia ,  ranging from normal to ambiguous with associated testosterone deficiency .
a mixed germ cell / sex cord - stromal tumor characterized by the presence of large germ cells which resemble seminoma cells and small cells which resemble sertoli or granulosa cells .
histiocytoid cardiomyopathy is an arrhythmogenic disorder characterised by cardiomegaly ,  severe cardiac arrhythmias or sudden death ,  and the presence of histiocyte - like cells within the myocardium .
an usher syndrome characterized by retinitis pigmentosa and onset of sensorineural hearing impairment in the teens that has material basis in mutation in the mtts2 gene in the mitochondrial genome .
a rare abnormality of the neuroendocrine system that is characterized by episodic nausea and vomiting .
maternally inherited diabetes and deafness  ( midd )  is a mitochondrial disorder characterized by maternally transmitted diabetes and sensorineural deafness .
chronic diarrhea with villous atrophy is a rare ,  genetic gastroenterological disease characterized by the early onset of chronic diarrhea ,  vomiting ,  anorexia ,  lactic acidosis ,  renal insuficiency and hepatic involvement  ( mild elevation of liver enzymes ,  steatosis ,  hepatomegaly )  .
kearns - sayre syndrome  ( kss )  is a mitochondrial disease characterized by progressive external ophthalmoplegia  ( peo )  ,  pigmentary retinitis and an onset before the age of 20 years .
leber's hereditary optic neuropathy  ( lhon )  is a mitochondrial neurodegenerative disease affecting the optic nerve and often characterized by sudden vision loss in young adult carriers .
melas  ( mitochondrial myopathy ,  encephalopathy ,  lactic acidosis ,  and stroke )  syndrome is a rare progressive multisystemic disorder characterized by encephalomyopathy ,  lactic acidosis ,  and stroke - like episodes .
a condition that can be caused by mutation ( s )  in more than one mitochondrial gene .
an inborn error of metabolism characterized by abnormal urinary excretion of myoglobin due to acute destruction of skeletal muscle fibers .
lethal infantile mitochondrial myopathy is a rare mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder characterized by progressive generalized hypotonia ,  progressive external ophthalmoplegia and severe lactic acidosis ,  which results in early fatality  ( days to months after birth )  .
neuropathy ,  ataxia ,  and retinitis pigmentosa  ( narp )  syndrome is a clinically heterogeneous progressive condition characterized by a combination of proximal neurogenic muscle weakness ,  sensory - motor neuropathy ,  ataxia ,  and pigmentary retinopathy .
a usually benign neoplasm composed of large cells with abundant eosinophilic granular cytoplasm .
pearson syndrome is characterized by refractory sideroblastic anemia ,  vacuolization of bone marrow precursors and exocrine pancreatic dysfunction .
proximal tubulopathy - diabetes mellitus - cerebellar ataxia syndrome is characterised by onset of proximal tubulopathy in the first year of life ,  followed by progressive development during childhood of skin anomalies  ( erythrocyanosis and abnormal pigmentation )  ,  blindness ,  osteoporosis ,  cerebellar ataxia ,  mitochondrial myopathy ,  deafness and diabetes mellitus .
spondylo - camptodactyly syndrome is characterized by camptodactyly ,  flattened cervical vertebral bodies and variable degrees of thoracic scoliosis .
pancreatic hypoplasia - diabetes - congenital heart disease syndrome is characterized by partial pancreatic agenesis ,  diabetes mellitus ,  and heart anomalies  ( including transposition of the great vessels ,  ventricular or atrial septal defects ,  pulmonary stenosis ,  or patent ductus arteriosis )  .
eiken syndrome is a rare familial skeletal dysplasia characterized by multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  with extremely retarded ossification .
bladder exstrophy  ( or classic bladder exstrophy ;  ceb )  is a congenital genitourinary malformation belonging to the spectrum of the exstrophy - epispadias complex  ( eec )  and is characterized by an evaginated bladder plate ,  epispadias and an anterior defect of the pelvis ,  pelvic floor and abdominal wall .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prpf8 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myo7a gene .
fatal familial insomnia  ( ffi )  is a very rare form of prion disease characterized by subacute onset of insomnia showing as a reduced overall sleep time ,  autonomic dysfunction ,  and motor disturbances .
a chronic myeloid leukemia characterized by chronic myelocytic leukemia in early infancy and absence of the bcr / abl fusion gene  ( philadelphia chromosome )  .
an autosomal recessive form of rickets caused by inactivating mutation ( s )  in the cyp2r1 gene ,  encoding vitamin d 25 - hydroxylase ,  the hepatic enzyme that converts vitamin d to 25 - hydroxyvitamin d ,  the precursor of 1 , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin d  ( calcitriol )  .
a non - cancerous nodular enlargement of the prostate gland .
chondrodysplasia  -  disorder of sex development is an extremely rare disorder of sex development ,  reported in only two siblings  ( one terminated in pregnancy )  to date ,  characterized by the clinical features of 46 , xy complete gonadal dysgenesis  ( normal external female genitalia ,  lack of pubertal development ,  primary amenorrhea ,  and hypergonadotrophic hypogonadism )  in association with severe dwarfism with generalized chondrodysplasia  ( bell - shaped thorax ,  micromelia ,  brachydactyly )  .
qazi - markouizos syndrome is characterised principally by non - progressive central hypotonia ,  chronic constipation ,  severe psychomotor retardation ,  abnormal dermatoglyphics ,  dysharmonic skeletal maturation and disproportionate muscle fibres .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnq4 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crb1 gene .
a group of disorders which feature impaired motor control characterized by bradykinesia ,  muscle rigidity ;  tremor ;  and postural instability .
familial developmental dysphasia is a severe form of developmental verbal apraxia characterized by a deficit in spontaneous speech ,  writing ,  grammatical judgment and repetition ,  defective articulation ,  moderate to severe degree of dyspraxia ,  a reduced use of consonant clusters ,  and comprehension delay .
any warburg micro syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rab3gap1 gene .
any rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the agps gene .
verloes - gillerot - fryns syndrome is a rare association of malformations .
atrioventricular defect - blepharophimosis - radial and anal defect syndrome is a rare ,  genetic multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by atrioventricular septal defects and blepharophimosis ,  in addition to radial  ( e .g .
childhood absence epilepsy  ( cae )  is a familial generalized pediatric epilepsy ,  characterized by very frequent  ( multiple per day )  absence seizures ,  usually occurring in children between the ages of 4 and 10 years ,  with ,  in most cases ,  a good prognosis .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tulp1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prpf31 gene .
carasil is a hereditary cerebral small vessel disease characterized by early - onset gait disturbances ,  premature scalp alopecia ,  ischemic stroke ,  acute mid to lower back pain and progressive cognitive disturbances leading to severe dementia .
any neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cln8 gene .
familial caudal dysgenesis is a rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis disorder characterized by varying degrees of caudal dysgenesis ,  ranging from a single umbilical artery or imperforate anus to full sirenomelia ,  in several members of the same family .
any hirschsprung disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ednrb gene .
pterygium colli - intellectual disability - digital anomalies syndrome is characterized by pterygium colli ,  digital anomalies  ( abnormal small thumbs ,  widened interphalangeal joints ,  and broad terminal phalanges )  ,  and craniofacial abnormalities  ( brachycephaly ,  epicanthic folds ,  angulated eyebrows ,  upward slanting of the palpebral fissures ,  ptosis ,  hypertelorism ,  and prominent low - set ,  posteriorly rotated ears )  .
hyperfunction of the parathyroid glands resulting in the overproduction of parathyroid hormone .
a congenital disorder characterized by the complete absence of gonadal tissue .
autosomal dominant congenital benign spinal muscular atrophy is a rare distal hereditary motor neuropathy ,  with a variable clinical phenotype ,  typically characterized by congenital ,  non - progressive ,  predominantly distal ,  lower limb muscle weakness and atrophy and congenital  ( or early - onset )  flexion contractures of the hip ,  knee and ankle joints .
pachygyria - intellectual disability - epilepsy syndrome is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by the presence of diffuse pachygyria and arachnoid cysts ,  psychomotor developmental delay and intellectual disability .
mucocutaneous venous malformations  ( vmcms )  are hereditary vascular malformations characterized by the presence of small ,  multifocal ,  bluish - purple venous lesions involving the skin and mucosa .
any multiple epiphyseal dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col9a2 gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 4  ( sca4 )  is a very rare progressive and untreatable subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  characterized by ataxia with sensory neuropathy .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 5  ( sca5 )  is a rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii  ( adca type iii )  characterized by the early - onset of cerebellar signs with eye movement abnormalities and a very slow disease progression .
lowry - maclean syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by microcephaly ,  craniosynostosis ,  glaucoma ,  growth failure and visceral malformations .
oculo - ectodermal syndrome  ( oes )  is characterized by the association of epibulbar dermoids and aplasia cutis congenital .
short tarsus  -  absence of lower eyelashes is a very rare syndrome characterized by the association of thin and short upper and lower tarsus and absence of the lower eyelashes .
polycystic kidney disease with tuberous sclerosis  ( pkd - tsc )  is characterised by early - onset and severe polycystic kidney disease with various manifestations of tuberous sclerosis  ( multiple angiomyolipomas ,  lymphangioleiomyomatosis and periventricular calcifications of the central nervous system )  .
semantic dementia  ( sd )  is a form of frontotemporal dementia  ( ftd )  ,  characterized by the progressive ,  amodal and profound loss of semantic knowledge  ( combination of visual associative agnosia ,  anomia ,  surface dyslexia or dysgraphia and disrupted comprehension of word meaning )  and behavioral abnormalities ,  attributable to the degeneration of the anterior temporal lobes .
macrocephaly - spastic paraplegia - dysmorphism syndrome is a rare syndrome of multiple congenital anomalies characterized by macrocephaly  ( of post - natal onset )  with large anterior fontanelle ,  progressive complex spastic paraplegia ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( broad and high forehead ,  deeply set eyes ,  short philtrum with thin upper lip ,  large mouth and prominent incisors )  ,  seizures ,  and intellectual deficit of varying severity .
any atrioventricular septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gja1 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myo15a gene .
a type 1 diabetes mellitus that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 15q26 .
a type 1 diabetes mellitus that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 11q13 .
any type 1 diabetes mellitus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sumo4 gene .
a type 1 diabetes mellitus that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 2q31 .
pseudoaminopterin syndrome is a developmental anomalies syndrome that resembles the aminopterin embryopathy without history of fetal exposure to aminopterin .
this syndrome is characterized by osteopetrosis ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  cerebral atrophy and a small hippocampus .
parc syndrome is a rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by the association of congenital poikiloderma  ( p )  ,  generalized alopecia  ( a )  ,  retrognathism  ( r )  and cleft palate  ( c )  .
tibial muscular dystrophy  ( tmd )  is a distal myopathy characterized by weakness of the muscles of the anterior compartment of lower limbs ,  appearing in the fourth to seventh decade of life .
recessive aplasia cutis congenita of limbs is an extremely rare variant of aplasia cutis congenita  ( acc )  characterized by the congenital absence of skin on the upper and / or lower limbs ,  with these lesions usually healing spontaneously resulting in a hypotrichotic scar .
hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type 5 is a rare axonal hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by slowly progressive distal muscle weakness and atrophy with or without sensory loss resulting in difficulty in walking ,  foot drop and pes cavus ,  that may be associated with pyramidal signs  ( extensor plantar responses ,  mild increase in tone ,  brisk tendon reflexes )  ,  muscle cramps ,  pain and spasticity .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 6  ( spg6 )  is a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia which usually presents in late adolescence or early adulthood as a pure phenotype of lower limb spasticity with hyperreflexia and extensor plantar responses ,  as well as mild bladder disturbances and pes cavus .
codas syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by cerebral ,  ocular ,  dental ,  auricular and skeletal anomalies .
any hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the acvrl1 gene .
mesomelia - synostoses syndrome  ( mss )  is a syndromal osteochondrodysplasia due to a contiguous gene deletion syndrome ,  characterized by progressive bowing of forearms and forelegs leading to mesomelia ,  progressive intracarpal or intratarsal bone fusion and fusion of metacarpal bones with proximal phalanges ,  ptosis ,  hypertelorism ,  abnormal soft palate ,  congenital heart defect ,  and ureteral anomalies .
aphalangy - syndactyly - microcephaly is an extremely rare malformation syndrome characterized by the association of partial distal aphalangia with syndactyly ,  duplication of metatarsal iv ,  microcephaly ,  and mild intellectual disability .
pectus excavatum - macrocephaly - dysplastic nails syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by relative macrocephaly ,  pectus excavatum ,  short stature ,  nail dysplasia ,  and motor developmental delay  ( that resolves during childhood )  .
deletion 2q37 or monosomy 2q37 is a chromosomal anomaly involving deletion of chromosome band 2q37 and manifests as three major clinical findings: developmental delay ,  skeletal malformations and facial dysmorphism .
anterior cervical hypertrichosis is a rare form of localised hypertrichosis characterised by hair growth near the laryngeal prominence during childhood .
the growth of endometrial tissue inside the muscular wall of the uterine corpus .
arterial dissection - lentiginosis is a rare association syndrome ,  reported in several members of two families to date ,  and characterized by arterial dissection ,  occurring at an early age and presenting with a range of manifestations depending on the vascular territory involved  ( ex .
acro - cardio - facial syndrome  ( acfs )  is a rare genetic disorder characterized by split - hand / split - foot malformation  ( shfm )  ,  facial anomalies ,  cleft lip / palate ,  congenital heart defect  ( chd )  ,  genital anomalies ,  and intellectual deficit .
waters - west syndrome is characterized by the association of lethal non - spherocytic ,  non - immune hemolytic anemia with abnormalities of the external genitalia  ( micropenis and hypospadias )  ,  flat occiput ,  dimpled earlobes ,  deep plantar creases ,  and increased space between the first and second toes .
monogenic diabetes caused by inactivating mutation ( s )  in the gene hnf1a ,  encoding hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 - alpha .
an autosomal recessive disease that is characterized by albinism ,  black lock ,  cell migration disorder of the neurocytes of the gut and sensorineural deafness and has material basis in a mutation in the endothelin b receptor gene  ( ednrb )  .
pigment - dispersion syndrome is an eye disorder that occurs when pigment granules that normally adhere to the back of the iris  ( the colored part of the eye )  flake off into the clear fluid produced by the eye  ( aqueous humor )  .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd3 on chromosome 6p23 .
an autosomal dominant condition that is characterized by partial seizures originating in the temporal lobe and often accompanied by auditory sensory manifestations .
any autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chrna4 gene .
hec syndrome is characterised by communicating hydrocephalus ,  endocardial fibroelastosis  ( efe )  ,  and congenital cataracts .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  reardon type is an extremely rare type of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia described in several members of a single family to date and characterized by short stature ,  vertebral and femoral abnormalities ,  cervical instability and neurologic manifestations secondary to anomalies of the odontoid process .
any orofacial cleft in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bmp4 gene .
familial hypertryptophanemia is characterized by intellectual deficit associated with behavioral problems: periodic mood swings ,  exaggerated affective responses and abnormal sexual behavior .
loose anagen syndrome is a rare benign hair disorder affecting predominantly blond females in childhood and characterized by the presence of hair that can be easily and painlessly pulled out .
any uv - sensitive syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc6 gene .
nocturnal enuresis with at least 3 nightly episodes in children older than 7 years ,  where the child has always had the disorder .
prolactinoma is a usually benign neoplasm of the pituitary gland that results in hyperprolactinemia .
any congenital fibrosis of extraocular muscles in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tubb3 gene .
caroli disease  ( cd )  is a rare congenital liver disease characterized by non - obstructive cystic dilatations of the intra - hepatic and rarely extra - hepatic bile ducts .
the severe infantile form of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii  ( cpt ii )  deficiency ,  an inherited disorder that affects mitochondrial oxidation of long chain fatty acids  ( lcfa )  ,  is the early - onset form of the disease .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myh14 gene .
any autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ganab gene .
microtia is a congenital malformation of the external ear ,  seen more frequently in males ,  that occurs sporadically or is inherited ,  that is characterized by unilateral  ( 79 - 93% of cases ,  60% of which involve the right ear )  or bilateral small and abnormally shaped auricles and that is often associated with atresia or stenosis of the ear canal ,  attention deficit disorders and delayed language development .
a dermoid cyst that involves the nose .
satoyoshi syndrome is a rare syndrome characterized by progressive ,  painful ,  intermittent muscle spasms .
d - 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria  ( d - 2 - hga )  is a rare clinically variable neurological form of 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria characterized biochemically by elevated d - 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid  ( d - 2 - hg )  in the urine ,  plasma and cerebrospinal fluid .
velo - facial - skeletal syndrome is a very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by short stature ,  facial dysmorphism  ( elongated face ,  hypertelorism ,  broad and high nasal bridge ,  mild epicanthus ,  posteriorly angulated ears ,  narrow and high - arched palate )  ,  skeletal anomalies  ( mesomelic brachymelia ,  short broad hands ,  prominent finger pads ,  short stubby thumbs ,  hyperextensibility of small joints ,  small feet )  ,  hypernasality and normal intelligence .
any familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap2s1 gene .
any craniosynostosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the erf gene .
anophthalmia plus syndrome is a very rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by the presence of anophthalmia or severe microphthalmia ,  cleft lip / palate ,  facial cleft and sacral neural tube defects ,  along with various additional anomalies including congenital glaucoma ,  iris coloboma ,  primary hyperplastic vitreous ,  hypertelorism ,  low - set ears ,  clinodactyly ,  choanal atresia / stenosis ,  dysgenesis of sacrum ,  tethering of spinal cord ,  syringomyelia ,  hypoplasia of corpus callosum ,  cerebral ventriculomegaly and endocrine abnormalities .
rickets caused by a post - receptor defect in the vitamin d signaling pathway producing vitamin d resistance due to constitutive overexpression of a nuclear ribonucleoprotein that competes with the vitamin d receptor - retinoid x receptor dimer binding with dna vitamin d response elements .
progressive bifocal chorioretinal atrophy  ( pbcra )  is an early - onset chorioretinal dystrophy characterized by large atrophic macular and nasal retinal lesions ,  nystagmus ,  myopia ,  poor vision ,  and slow disease progression .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in mutation in the slc26a4 gene on chromosome 7q22 .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  t - b +  due to jak3 deficiency is a form of scid characterized by severe and recurrent infections ,  associated with diarrhea and failure to thrive .
low phospholipid associated cholelithiasis is a rare genetic hepatic disease characterized by cholesterol gallstones and intrahepatic stones developing before the age of 40 years .
nocturnal enuresis where the child has been dry for at least 6 months but enuresis has recurred .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of prodh on chromosome 22q11 .21 .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ca4 gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkag2 gene .
budd - chiari syndrome  ( bcs )  is caused by obstruction of hepatic venous outflow involving either the hepatic veins or the terminal segment of the inferior vena cava .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cryba1 gene .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2b  ( cmt2b )  is a severe form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
a type 1 diabetes mellituss that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 6q25 - q27 .
a dilated cardiomyopathy that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 9q13 .
hereditary hyperferritinemia with congenital cataracts is characterized by the association of early onset  ( although generally absent at birth )  cataract with persistently raised plasma ferritin concentrations in the absence of iron overload .
fanconi anemia caused by mutations of the fance gene .
van den ende - gupta syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by blepharophimosis ,  arachnodactyly ,  joint contractures ,  and characteristic dysmorphic features .
prohormone convertase - i deficiency is the rarest form of monogenic obesity .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wfs1 gene .
any multiple epiphyseal dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col9a3 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmie gene .
achondrogenesis type 1b  ( acg1b )  ,  a form of achondrogenesis ,  is a rare lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe micromelia with very short fingers and toes ,  a flat face ,  a short neck ,  thickened soft tissue around the neck ,  hypoplasia of the thorax ,  protuberant abdomen ,  a hydropic fetal appearance and distinctive histological features of the cartilage .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmc1 gene .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pitpnm3 gene .
infundibulopelvic stenosis - multicystic kidney syndrome is a rare ,  genetic renal malformation syndrome characterized by variable degrees of malformation in the pelvicalyceal system  ( including unilateral or bilateral calyceal dilatation ,  infundibular stenosis ,  hypoplasia or stenosis of the renal pelvis )  which lead to multicystic kidney .
this syndrome is characterised principally by sprengel anomaly  ( upward displacement of the scapula )  and hydrocephaly .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gsdme gene .
any nephrotic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nphs2 gene .
any familial isolated arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ryr2 gene .
krt14 - related epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs - ar krt14 )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex ebs characterized by generalized or ,  less frequently ,  localized acral blistering .
brody myopathy is a hereditary condition that affects the skeletal muscles  ( muscles used for movement )  .
timothy syndrome is a multi - system disorder characterized by cardiac ,  hand ,  facial and neurodevelopmental features that include qt prolongation ,  webbed fingers and toes ,  flattened nasal bridge ,  low - set ears ,  small upper jaw ,  thin upper lip ,  and characteristic features of autism or autistic spectrum disorders .
tibia absent  -  polydactyly  -  arachnoid cyst syndrome is a very rare constellation of multiple anomalies ,  including absence or hypoplasia of the tibia .
a dystonia characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of paroxysmal choreoathetosis and progressive spastic paraplegia ,  episodes are often precipitated by alcohol ,  fatigue ,  or emotional stress that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the slc2a1 gene on chromosome 1p34 .
a form of usher syndrome type i that is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the gene encoding cadherin - 23  ( cdh23 )  on chromosome 10q22 .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the otof gene .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in mutation in the tmprss3 gene on chromosome 21q22 .
aplasia cutis - myopia syndrome is characterised by the association of aplasia cutis congenita with high myopia ,  congenital nystagmus and cone - rod dysfunction .
mayer - rokitansky - kster - hauser  ( mrkh )  syndrome type 2 ,  a form of mrkh syndrome ,  is characterized by congenital aplasia of the uterus and upper 2 / 3 of the vagina that is associated with at least one other malformation such as renal ,  vertebral ,  or ,  less commonly ,  auditory and cardiac defects .
harrod syndrome is characterized by the association of intellectual deficit ,  facial dysmorphism  ( a highly arched palate ,  pointed chin ,  and small mouth ,  hypotelorism ,  a long nose and large protruding ears )  ,  arachnodactyly ,  hypogenitalism  ( undescended testes and hypospadias )  and failure to thrive .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease type 1 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the litaf gene .
classical progressive supranuclear palsy ,  also known as richardson's syndrome ,  is the most common clinical variant of progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease characterized by postural instability ,  progressive rigidity ,  supranuclear gaze palsy and mild dementia .
 ( 3q27 .3 )  .
fallot complex  -  intellectual deficit  -  growth delay is a rare disorder characterized by tetralogy of fallot ,  minor facial anomalies ,  and severe intellectual deficiency and growth delay .
any brugada syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn5a gene .
any hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type 6 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mfn2 gene .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn5a gene .
this syndrome is characterised by severe microcephaly ,  agyria ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  cerebellar hypoplasia ,  facial dysmorphology and epiphyseal stippling of the metacarpal bones .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of classical diaphragmatic hernia  ( bochdalek type )  with severe lung hypoplasia ,  and variable associated malformations .
cleft lip / palate  -  intestinal malrotation  -  cardiopathy is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome described in 5 patients to date ,  characterized by flat face ,  hypertelorism ,  flat occiput ,  upward slanting palpebral fissures ,  cleft palate ,  micrognathia ,  short neck ,  and severe congenital heart defects which were lethal in 3 of the 5 patients reported .
matthew - wood syndrome is a rare clinical entity including as main characteristics anophthalmia or severe microphthalmia ,  and pulmonary hypoplasia or aplasia .
skeletal dysplasia - epilepsy - short stature syndrome is characterized by moderate to severe intellectual deficit ,  seizures ,  short stature ,  and skeletal dysplasia .
african iron overload is a rare disorder described in sub - saharan african populations and is characterized by iron overload due to excess dietary iron intake and possibly genetic factors ,  leading to hepatic portal fibrosis and micronodular cirrhosis .
any autosomal dominant hypocalcemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the casr gene .
a malignant neoplasm affecting the lungs and / or the pleura .
a cataract that has material basis in variation in the region 17p13 .
a type 1 diabetes mellitus that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 14q24 .3 - q31 .
naxos disease is a recessively inherited condition with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia / cardiomyopathy  ( arvd / c )  and a cutaneous phenotype ,  characterised by peculiar woolly hair and palmoplantar keratoderma .
autosomal recessive brachyolmia - amelogenesis imperfecta syndrome is an exceedingly rare form of brachyolmia ,  characterized by mild platyspondyly ,  broad ilia ,  elongated femoral necks with coxa valga ,  scoliosis ,  and short trunked short stature associated with amelogenesis imperfecta of both primary and permanent dentition .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of total alopecia  ( present at birth )  ,  mild intellectual deficit and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism .
osteoporosis - oculocutaneous hypopigmentation syndrome is characterised by osteoporosis and congenital oculocutaneous hypopigmentation .
potocki - shaffer syndrome is characterized by multiple exostoses ,  parietal foramina ,  enlargement of the anterior fontanelle and occasionally intellectual deficit and mild cranio - facial anomalies .
hereditary mixed polyposis syndrome  ( hmps )  describes an autosomal dominantly inherited large - bowel disease characterized by the presence of a mixture of hyperplastic ,  atypical juvenile and adenomatous polyps that are associated with an increased risk of developing colorectal cancer if left untreated .
dermatitis herpetiformis is a rare ,  chronic ,  skin disorder characterized by groups of severely itchy blisters and raised skin lesions .
cerebellar ataxia ,  cayman type is characterised by psychomotor retardation ,  hypotonia and cerebellar dysfunction  ( nystagmus ,  ataxic gait ,  truncal ataxia ,  dysarthric speech and intention tremor )  ,  associated with cerebellar hypoplasia .
any autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abca12 gene .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2f  ( lgmd2f )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a variable age of onset of progressive weakness and wasting of the proximal skeletal muscles of the shoulder and pelvic girdles ,  frequently associated with progressive respiratory muscle impairment and cardiomyopathy .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the eya4 gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myo7a gene .
a type 1 diabetes mellituss that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 2q34 .
odontomicronychial dysplasia is a rare ,  hereditary ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by involvement of teeth and nails  -  precocious eruption and shedding of deciduous dentition ,  precocious eruption of secondary dentition with short ,  rhomboid roots ,  and short ,  thin ,  slow growing nails .
neurofibromatosis - noonan syndrome  ( nfns )  is a rasopathy and a variant of neurofibromatosis type 1  ( nf1 )  characterized by the combination of features of nf1 ,  such as cafc )  - au - lait spots ,  iris lisch nodules ,  axillary and inguinal freckling ,  optic nerve glioma and multiple neurofibromas ;  and noonan syndrome  ( ns )  ,  such as short stature ,  typical facial features  ( hypertelorism ,  ptosis ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  low - set posteriorly rotated ears with a thickened helix ,  and a broad forehead )  ,  congenital heart defects and unusual pectus deformity .
porencephaly - cerebellar hypoplasia - internal malformations syndrome is rare central nervous system malformation syndrome characterized by bilateral porencephaly ,  absence of the septum pellucidum and cerebellar hypoplasia with absent vermis .
cerebellar ataxia  -  areflexia  -  pes cavus  -  optic atrophy  -  sensorineural hearing loss  ( capos syndrome )  is a rare autosomal dominant neurological disorder characterized by early onset cerebellar ataxia ,  associated with areflexia ,  progressive optic atrophy ,  sensorineural deafness ,  a pes cavus deformity ,  and abnormal eye movements .
ectodermal dysplasia with natal teeth ,  turnpenny type is characterised by hypo -  or oligodontia and acanthosis nigricans .
a congenital syndromic form of split - hand / foot malformation  ( shfm )  .
this syndrome is characterised by short stature presenting in the neonatal period associated with osteochondrodysplastic lesions and facial dysmorphism .
this syndrome is characterised by sensorineural deafness ,  short stature ,  femoral epiphyseal dysplasia ,  umbilical and inguinal hernias and developmental delay  ( growth retardation and mild intellectual deficit )  .
epilepsy - microcephaly - skeletal dysplasia syndrome is characterized by the association of moderate to severe intellectual deficit ,  microcephaly ,  epilepsy ,  coarse face ,  hirsutism and skeletal abnormalities  ( scoliosis and retarded bone development )  .
fine - lubinsky syndrome is characterised by psychomotor delay ,  brachycephaly with flat face ,  small nose ,  microstomia ,  cleft palate ,  cataract ,  hearing loss ,  hypoplastic scrotum and digital anomalies .
microcephaly  -  cardiac defect  -  lung malsegmentation syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by the combination of microcephaly ,  heart defects ,  renal hypoplasia ,  lung segmentation defects and cleft palate .
intellectual disability - sparse hair - brachydactyly syndrome is a very rare condition of unknown etiology consisting of short stature ,  hypotrichosis ,  brachydactyly with cone - shaped epiphyses ,  epilepsy and severe mental delay .
autosomal recessive amelia is characterised by the absence of the upper limbs and severe underdevelopment of the lower limbs .
distal monosomy 10p is a rare chromosomal disorder in which the tip of the short arm  ( p arm )  of chromosome 10 is deleted resulting in a variable phenotype depending on the size of the deletion .
a disorder resulting from inadequate blood flow in the vessels that supply the brain .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the coch gene .
holoprosencephaly - craniosynostosis syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by the association of primary craniosynostosis  ( usually involving the coronal and metopic sutures )  with holoprosencephaly  ( ranging from alobar to ,  most commonly ,  semilobar )  and various skeletal anomalies  ( typically ,  hand and feet anomalies including fifth digit clinodactyly ,  hypoplastic phalanges and cone - shaped epiphyses ,  small vertebral bodies ,  scoliosis ,  coxa valga and / or flexion deformities of hips )  .
early - onset non - syndromic cataract is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic developmental defect of the eye ,  with high clinical and genetic heterogeneity ,  most frequently characterized by bilateral ,  symmetrical ,  non - progressive cataracts which present at birth or in early - childhood .
hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia ,  christianson - fourie type is a rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by tricho -  and onychodysplasia in association with cardiac rhythm abnormalities .
hunter - mcalpine craniosynostosis is characterised by craniosynostosis ,  intellectual deficit ,  short stature ,  facial dysmorphism  ( oval face with almond - shaped palpebral fissures ,  droopy eyelids and a small nose )  and minor distal anomalies .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4b1  ( cmt4b1 )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by an early childhood - onset of severe ,  demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy ,  various degrees of complex myelin outfoldings seen on peripheral nerve biopsy ,  very slow ,  and often undetectable ,  nerve conduction velocities ,  and the typical cmt phenotype  ( i .e .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that is characterized by prelingual onset with severe to profound ,  stable hearing loss and has material basis in mutation in the cdh23 gene on chromosome 10q22 .
any type 1 diabetes mellitus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ctla4 gene .
any van maldergem syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dchs1 gene .
the disorder is characterized by thrombocytopenia of varying severity and a predisposition to hematologic malignancies .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that is characterized by progressive high - tone hearing loss and has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 1q21 - q23 .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prpf3 gene .
desminopathy is a rare genetic skeletal muscle disease characterized by abnormal chimeric aggregates of desmin and other cytoskeletal proteins and granulofilamentous material at the ultrastructural level in muscle biopsies and variable clinical /  myopathological features ,  age of disease onset and rate of disease progression .
rhizomelic dysplasia ,  patterson - lowry type is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by short stature ,  severe rhizomelic shortening of the upper limbs associated with specific malformations of humeri  ( including marked widening and flattening of proximal metaphyses ,  medial flattening of the proximal epiphyses ,  and lateral bowing with medial cortical thickening of the proximal diaphyses )  ,  marked coxa vara with dysplastic femoral heads and brachimetacarpalia .
stapes fixation  ( stapedovestibular ankylosis )  is a hearing loss condition that appears as a consequence of annular ligament destruction followed by excessive connective tissue production during the healing process .
dislocation of the hip - dysmorphism syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by bilateral congenital dislocation of the hip ,  characteristic facial features  ( flat mid - face ,  hypertelorism ,  epicanthus ,  puffiness around the eyes ,  broad nasal bridge ,  carp - shaped mouth )  ,  and joint hyperextensibility .
trichodental syndrome is characterised by the association of fine ,  dry and short hair with dental anomalies .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4d  ( cmt4d )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by a childhood - onset of severe ,  progressive ,  demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy manifesting with distal muscle weakness and atrophy ,  sensorineural hearing impairment leading to deafness  ( usually in third decade )  ,  severely reduced nerve conduction velocities ,  and skeletal ,  especially foot ,  deformities .
severe combined immunodeficiency due to complete rag1 / 2 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic t - b -  severe combined immunodeficiency disorder due to null mutations in recombination activating gene  ( rag )  1 and / or rag2 resulting in less than 1% of wild type v ( d ) j recombination activity .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 12p13 .2 - q24 .1 .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chrna1 gene .
isolated hereditary congenital facial paralysis  ( ihcfp )  is an extremely rare neurological disorder presumed to result from maldevelopment of the facial nucleus and / or cranial nerve and has been reported in fewer than 10 families to date .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2d  ( cmt2d )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ,  characterized by distal weakness primarily and predominantly occurring in the upper limbs and tendon reflexes absent or reduced in the arms and decreased in the legs .
ribbing disease is a rare bone disease that causes bony growths on the long bones ,  such as the thigh bone and shine bone .ribbing diseaseaffects women more frequently than men .
an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by mutation ( s )  in the hyal1 gene ,  encoding hyaluronidase - 1 .
a dilated cardiomyopathy that has material basis in mutation in the ldb3 gene on chromosome 10q23 .2 .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnnt2 gene .
agammaglobulinemia ,  non - bruton type  ( autosomal agammaglobulinemia )  is a rare form of agammaglobulinemia ,  a primary immunodeficiency disease ,  and is characterized by variable immune dysfunction with frequent and recurrent bacterial infections and / or chronic diarrhea .
an axenfeld - rieger syndrome that has material basis in deletions in the region 13q14 .
any familial prostate cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rnasel gene .
human hoxa1 syndromes is characterised by deafness ,  central hypoventilation ,  congenital ocular paralysis and developmental retardation .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tecta gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gjb2 gene .
any cataract  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crybb2 gene .
facial dysmorphism - lens dislocation - anterior segment abnormalities - spontaneous filtering blebs syndrome is a syndromic developmental defect of the eye characterized by dislocated or subluxated crystalline lenses ,  anterior segment abnormalities ,  and distinctive facial features such as flat cheeks and a prominent ,  beaked nose .
hypotrichosis with juvenile macular degeneration  ( hjmd )  is a very rare syndrome characterized by sparse and short hair from birth followed by progressive macular degeneration leading to blindness .
stve - wiedemann syndrome  ( sws )  is a rare autosomal recessive congenital primary skeletal dysplasia ,  characterized by small stature ,  bowing of the long bones ,  camptodactyly ,  hyperthermic episodes ,  respiratory distress / apneic episodes and feeding difficulties that usually lead to early mortality .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  lowry type is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by small ,  flat epiphyses  ( esp .
this syndrome is characterised by kniest dysplasia ,  spine abnormalities and severe dwarfism .
any wilms tumor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pou6f2 gene .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4c  ( cmt4c )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth type 4 characterized by childhood or adolescent - onset of a relatively mild ,  demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy that contrasts with a severe ,  rapidly progressing ,  early - onset scoliosis ,  and the typical cmt phenotype  ( i .e .
lung agenesis  -  heart defect  -  thumb anomalies is a very rare syndrome characterized by unilateral complete or partial lung agenesis ,  congenital cardiac defects and ipsilateral thumb anomalies .
an acute leukemia of ambiguous lineage in which there is a dual population of blasts with each population expressing markers of a distinct lineage  ( myeloid and lymphoid or b - and t - lymphocyte )  .
any paraganglioma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sdhaf2 gene .
a disorder involving an excessive amount of body fat .
a type 1 diabetes mellitus that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 6q21 .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia - abnormal dentition syndrome is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by the association of dental anomalies  ( oligodontia with pointed incisors )  and generalized platyspondyly with epiphyseal and metaphyseal involvement .
antenatal bartter syndrome is a phenotypic variant of bartter syndrome presenting antenatally with maternal polyhydramnios ,  pre - term delivery and postnatally with polyuria ,  and nephrocalcinosis .
sheldon - hall syndrome  ( shs )  is a rare multiple congenital contracture syndrome characterized by contractures of the distal joints of the limbs ,  triangular face ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  small mouth ,  and high arched palate .
a severe combined immunodeficiency characterized by congenital alopecia ,  severe t - cell immunodeficiency ,  and ridging ,  pitting or curving of all nails that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the foxn1 gene on chromosome 17q11 - q12 .
yemenite deaf - blind hypopigmentation syndrome is an exceedingly rare genetic disorder characterized by cutaneous pigmentation anomalies ,  ocular disorders and hearing loss .
curry - jones syndrome is a form of syndromic craniosynostosis ,  characterized by unilateral coronal craniosynostosis or multiple suture synostosis associated with complete or partial agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  preaxial polysyndactyly and syndactyly of hands and / or feet ,  along with anomalies of the skin  ( characteristic pearly white areas that become scarred and atrophic ,  abnormal hair growth around the eyes and / or cheeks ,  and on the limbs )  ,  eyes  ( iris colobomas ,  microphthalmia ,  )  and intestine  ( congenital short gut ,  malrotation ,  dysmotility ,  chronic constipation ,  bleeding and myofibromas )  .
quebec platelet syndrome  ( qps )  is a platelet granule disorder characterized by moderate to severe bleeding after trauma ,  surgery or obstetric interventions ,  frequent ecchymoses ,  mucocutaneous bleeding and muscle and joint bleeds .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abca4 gene .
any systemic lupus erythematosus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tlr5 gene .
benign familial neonatal - infantile seizures  ( bfnis )  is a benign familial epilepsy syndrome with an intermediate phenotype between benign familial neonatal seizures  ( bfns )  and benign familial infantile seizures  ( bfis )  .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  musculocontractural type is a congenital form of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by distinct craniofacial features ,  multiple contractures ,  progressive joint and skin laxity ,  adduction - flexion contractures of the thumbs ,  talipes equinovarus ,  bruisability and multisystem fragility - related manifestations .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gucy2d gene .
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 6  ( cln6 - ncl )  is a rare condition that affects the nervous system .
pallister - killian syndrome  ( pks )  is a rare multiple congenital anomaly / intellectual deficit syndrome caused by mosaic tissue - limited tetrasomy for chromosome 12p .
a condition in which some or all of the cells of the body contain extra genetic material from chromosome 18 .
spondylospinal thoracic dysostosis is an extremely rare skeletal disorder characterized bya short ,  curved spine and fusion of the spinous processes ,  short thorax with 'crab - like' configuration of the ribs ,  underdevelopment of the lungs  ( pulmonary hypoplasia )  ,  severe arthrogryposis and multiple pterygia  ( webbing of the skin across joints )  ,  and underdevelopment of the bones of the mouth .this condition is believed to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner .it does notappear to be compatible with life .
3 - phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( 3 - pgdh deficiency )  is an autosomal recessive form of serine deficiency syndrome characterized clinically in the few reported cases by congenital microcephaly ,  psychomotor retardation and intractable seizures in the infantile form and by absence seizures ,  moderate developmental delay and behavioral disorders in the juvenile form
any hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnj11 gene .
acrofacial dysostosis ,  palagonia type is a very rare form of acrofacial dysostosis ,  reported in four members of a family from the sicilian village of palagonia ,  characterized by normal intelligence ,  shortness of stature ,  and mild acrofacial dysostosis  ( malar hypoplasia ,  micrognathia and webbing of digits with shortening of the fourth metacarpals )  associated with oligodontia ,  normal or high arched palate ,  aplasia cutis verticis with pili torti ,  mild cutaneous syndactyly of digits 2 - 5 ,  webbing of digits and shortening of the fourth metacarpals ,  and unilateral cleft lip .
progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 2  ( pfic2 )  ,  a type of progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis  ( pfic )  ,  is a severe ,  neonatal ,  hereditary disorder in bile formation that is hepatocellular in origin and not associated with extrahepatic features .
lopez - hernandez syndrome ,  which may be classified among the neurocutaneous syndromes ,  associates abnormalities of the cerebellum  ( rhombencephalosynapsis )  ,  cranial nerves  ( trigeminal anesthesia )  ,  and scalp  ( alopecia )  .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col11a2 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gipc3 gene .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gja3 gene .
any malignant hyperthermia of anesthesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacna1s gene .
any fibronectin glomerulopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fn1 gene .
lymphedema - atrial septal defects - facial changes syndrome is characterised by congenital lymphoedema of the lower limbs ,  atrial septal defect and a characteristic facies  ( a round face with a prominent forehead ,  a flat nasal bridge with a broad nasal tip ,  epicanthal folds ,  a thin upper lip and a cleft chin )  .
a type 1 diabetes mellitus that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 18q21 .
any type 1 diabetes mellitus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il2ra gene .
keratosis linearis - ichthyosis congenita - sclerosing keratoderma  ( klick )  syndrome is an inherited epidermal disorder characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma ,  linear hyperkeratotic papules on the flexural side of large joints  ( cord - like distribution around wrists ,  in antecubital and popliteal folds )  ,  hyperkeratotic plaques  ( on neck ,  axillae ,  elbows ,  wrists ,  and knees )  ,  mild ichthyosiform scaling ,  and sclerotic constrictions around fingers that present flexural deformities .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2g  ( lgmd2g )  is a mild subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a variable onset  ( ranging from infancy to adolescence )  of progressive proximal upper and lower limb muscle weakness and atrophy .
odonto - tricho - ungual - digito - palmar syndrome is characterised by neonatal teeth ,  trichodystrophy and malformations of the hands and feet .
any essential thrombocythemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mpl gene .
primary hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia  ( phsh )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  ,  characterized by severe hypomagnesemia and secondary hypocalcemia associated with neurological symptoms ,  including generalized seizures ,  tetany and muscle spasms .
any pure hair and nail ectodermal dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt85 gene .
infantile convulsions and paroxysmal choreoathetosis  ( icca )  syndrome is a neurological condition characterized by the occurrence of seizures during the first year of life  ( benign familial infantile epilepsy )  and choreoathetotic dyskinetic attacks during childhood or adolescence .
any congenital fibrosis of extraocular muscles in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the phox2a gene .
thiel - behnke corneal dystrophy  ( tbcd )  is a rare form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by sub - epithelial honeycomb - shaped corneal opacities in the superficial cornea ,  and progressive visual impairment .
a form of usher syndrome type if that can be caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the protocadherin - 15 gene  ( pcdh15 )  on chromosome 10q .
an arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia associated with variation in the region 14q12 - q22 .
an arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia associated with variation in the region 2q32 .1 - q32 .3 .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the invs gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ush1c gene .
any cone dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the guca1a gene .
a form of usher syndrome type i that features a novel locus for ush1 ,  ush1e ,  mapping to chromosome band 21q21 .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spg11 gene .
hereditary thermosensitive neuropathy is a rare ,  demyelinating ,  hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by reversible episodes of ascending muscle weakness ,  paresthesias and areflexia triggered by a febrile episode ,  with or without pressure palsy .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  missouri type is characterized by moderate - to - severe metaphyseal changes ,  mild epiphyseal involvement ,  rhizomelic shortening of the lower limbs with bowing of the femora and / or tibiae ,  coxa vara ,  genu varum and pear - shaped vertebrae in childhood .
a focal dystonia characterized by predomiantly cervical dystonia that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 18p .
rhyns syndrome is characterised by the association of retinitis pigmentosa ,  hypopituitarism ,  nephronophthisis ,  and skeletal dysplasia .
malignant atrophic papulosis  ( map )  is a rare ,  chronic ,  thrombo - obliterative vasculopathy characterized by papular skin lesions with central porcelain - white atrophy and a surrounding teleangiectatic rim .
axial spondylometaphyseal dysplasia is a genetic disorder of bone growth .
pierpont syndrome is a rare subcutaneous tissue disorder characterized by axial hypotonia after birth ,  prolonged feeding difficulties ,  moderate to severe global developmental delay ,  seizures  ( in particular absence seizures )  ,  fetal digital pads ,  distinctive plantar fat pads anteromedial to the heels ,  deep palmar and plantar grooves .
progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 3  ( pfic3 )  ,  a type of progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis  ( pfic )  ,  is a late - onset hereditary disorder in bile formation that is hepatocellular in origin .
osteocraniostenosis is a lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by a cloverleaf skull anomaly ,  facial dysmorphism ,  limb shortness ,  splenic hypo / aplasia and radiological anomalies including thin tubular bones with flared metaphyses and deficient calvarial mineralization .
any hemochromatosis type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hjv gene .
desmosterolosis is a very rare sterol biosynthesis disorder characterized by multiple congenital anomalies ,  failure to thrive ,  and intellectual disability ,  with elevated levels of desmosterol .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the setx gene .
monomelic amyotrophy  ( ma )  is a rare benign lower motor neuron disorder characterized by muscular weakness and wasting in the distal upper extremities during adolescence followed by a spontaneous halt in progression and a stabilization of symptoms .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  due to dclre1c deficiency is a type of scid characterized by severe and recurrent infections ,  diarrhea ,  failure to thrive ,  and cell sensitivity to ionizing radiation .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pou4f3 gene .
ethylmalonic acid encephalopathy  ( ee )  is defined by elevated excretion of ethylmalonic acid  ( ema )  with recurrent petechiae ,  orthostatic acrocyanosis and chronic diarrhoea associated with neurodevelopmental delay ,  psychomotor regression and hypotonia with brain magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  abnormalities .
a disorder characterized by benign depositions of calcium in the posterior longitudinal ligament .
any familial or sporadic hemiplegic migraine in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atp1a2 gene .
any axenfeld - rieger syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the foxc1 gene .
any auriculocondylar syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gnai3 gene .
hyperinsulism due to glucokinase deficiency  ( higck )  is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism ,  caused by a lowered threshold for insulin release ,  characterized by an excessive /  uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  and recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia induced by fasting and protein rich meals ,  requiring rapid and intensive treatment to prevent neurological sequelae .
any familial combined hyperlipidemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the usf1 gene .
megalencephaly - capillary malformation - polymicrogyria syndrome  ( mcap )  is a polymalfomative syndrome characterized by cutaneous capillary malformations ,  megalencephaly ,  cortical brain malformations  ( most distinctively polymicrogyria )  ,  abnormalities of somatic growth with body and brain asymmetry ,  developmental delay ,  and characteristic facial dysmorphism .
any bartter syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bsnd gene .
grange syndrome is characterised by stenosis or occlusion of multiple arteries  ( including the renal ,  cerebral and abdominal vessels )  ,  hypertension ,  brachysyndactyly ,  syndactyly ,  increased bone fragility ,  and learning difficulties or borderline intellectual deficit .
marshall - smith syndrome is a rare genetic disease characterized by tall stature and advanced bone age at birth .
distal monosomy 13q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 13 ,  with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by varying degrees of intellectual disability and developmental delay ,  as well as cns malformations  ( e .g .
a dystonia characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of generalized dystonia with severe involvement of the legs ,  mild involvement of the face and arms ,  and onset in infancy .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia congenita ,  shohat type is characterized by severely disproportionate short stature ,  short limbs ,  small chest ,  short neck ,  thin lips ,  severe lumbar lordosis ,  marked genu varum ,  joint laxity ,  distended abdomen ,  mild hepatomegaly and splenomegaly .
craniomicromelic syndrome is a very rare disorder characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  underossification of the skull with large fontanels ,  short limbs with absent phalanges and finger and toe syndactyly .
 ( 15q24 .1 )  .
any branchiootic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the eya1 gene .
a retinitis pigmentosa that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 16p12 .3 - p12 .1 .
an instance of pancreas lymphoma that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia characterized by spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  craniosynostosis ,  cataracts ,  cleft palate and intellectual deficit .
camptodactyly - joint contractures - facial skeletal defects syndrome is characterised by the association of camptodactyly ,  multiple eye defects  ( fibrosis of the medial rectus muscle ,  severe myopia ,  ptosis and exophthalmos )  ,  scoliosis ,  flexion contractures and facial anomalies  ( arched eyebrows ,  facial asymmetry with an abnormal skull shape ,  a prominent nose ,  small mouth ,  low - set and dysplastic ears ,  and a low nuchal hairline )  .
primary dystonia dyt6 type is characterized by focal ,  predominantly cranio - cervical dystonia with dysarthria and dysphagia ,  or limb dystonia in some cases .
myotonic dystrophy type 2  ( md2 )  ,  also known as proximal myotonic myopathy ,  is a very rare genetic multi - system disorder of late childhood or adult - onset characterized by mild myotonia ,  muscle weakness ,  and rarely cardiac conduction disorders .
any psoriasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the card14 gene .
an inherited muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the sepn1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the eys gene .
h syndrome is a systemic inherited histiocytosis ,  with characteristic cutaneous findings accompanying systemic manifestations .
muenke syndrome is a syndromic craniosynostosis with significant phenotypic variability ,  usually characterized by coronal synostosis ,  midfacial retrusion ,  strabismus ,  hearing loss and developmental delay .
a rare autosomal recessive acromesomelic dysplasia characterized by severe dwarfism  ( adult height  > 120 cm )  ,  both axial and appendicular involvement  ( shortening of the middle and distal segments of limbs and vertebral shortening )  ,  and with normal facial appearance and intelligence .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation between d7s2453 and d7s525 in the chromosome region 7q31 .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd6 on chromosome 8p21 .
congenital myasthenic syndrome caused by mutation ( s )  in the colq gene ,  encoding acetylcholinesterase collagenic tail peptide .
unequal curvature of the refractive surfaces of the eye .
an age related macular degeneration associated with polymorphism in the hemicentin gene  ( hmcn1 )  on chromosome 1q25 .3 - q31 .1 .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 7q34 - q36 .
craniosynostosis  -  anal anomalies  -  porokeratosis ,  or cdags ,  is a very rare condition characterized by craniosynostosis and clavicular hypoplasia ,   ( c )  ,  delayed closure of the fontanel  ( d )  ,  anal anomalies  ( a )  ,  genitourinary malformations  ( g )  and skin eruption  ( s )  .
 ( 1p31 .3 )  .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in a mutation on chromosome 6q13 - q26 .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd7 on chromosome 13q32 .
any meckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem216 gene .
an autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 15q24 .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd8 on chromosome 18p .
any neurodegenerative disease with chorea in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prnp gene .
pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1b  ( php - 1b )  is a type of pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php )  characterized by localized resistance to parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  mainly in the renal tissues which manifests with hypocalcemia ,  hyperphosphatemia and elevated pth levels .
a type 1 diabetes mellitus that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 10q25 .
any focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the actn4 gene .
any familial cerebral cavernous malformation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccm2 gene .
any familial cerebral cavernous malformation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pdcd10 gene .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd2 on chromosome 11q14 - q21 .
gracile syndrome is an inherited lethal mitochondrial disorder characterized by fetal growth restriction  ( gr )  ,  aminoaciduria  ( a )  ,  cholestasis  ( c )  ,  iron overload  ( i )  ,  lactacidosis  ( l )  ,  and early death  ( e )  .
any megalencephaly - polymicrogyria - postaxial polydactyly - hydrocephalus syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pik3r2 gene .
radioulnar synostosis - microcephaly - scoliosis syndrome ,  also known as guiffrc )  - tsukahara syndrome ,  is an extremely rare syndrome characterized by the association of radioulnar synostosis with microcephaly ,  scoliosis ,  short stature and intellectual deficit .
fanconi anemia caused by mutations of the fancf gene .
adult - onset citrullinemia type ii is an inherited disorder that causes ammonia and other toxic substances to accumulate in the blood .
neuronal intranuclear inclusion disease  ( niid )  is a very rare multisystem neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the presence of eosinophilic intranuclear inclusions in neuronal and glial cells ,  and neuronal loss .
any spastic quadriplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gad1 gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 10  ( sca10 )  is a subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
congenital chylothorax is a rare ,  potentially life - threatening neonatal condition characterized by the accumulation of chyle within the pleural space leading to respiratory distress ,  malnutrition and immunological compromise ,  either immediately after birth or within the first few weeks of life .
limb - mammary syndrome  ( lms )  is a rare disease belonging to the group of ectodermal dysplasias .
a rare disorder caused by mutation in the kif22 gene .
any genetic hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the stx11 gene .
any genetic hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prf1 gene .
omenn syndrome  ( os )  is an inflammatory condition characterized by erythroderma ,  desquamation ,  alopecia ,  chronic diarrhea ,  failure to thrive ,  lymphadenopathy ,  and hepatosplenomegaly ,  associated with severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the washc5 gene .
slc35a1 - cdg is an extremely rare form of cdg syndrome characterized clinically in the single reported case by repeated hemorrhagic incidents ,  including severe pulmonary hemorrhage .
type ii xanthinuria ,  a type of classical xanthinuria ,  is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of purine metabolism characterized by the deficiency of both xanthine dehydrogenase and aldehyde oxidase ,  leading to the formation of urinary xanthine urolithiasis and leading ,  in some patients ,  to kidney failure .
a congenital anomaly of the hand or foot ,  marked by the presence of supernumerary digits .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myh9 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tecta gene .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rims1 gene .
acromelic frontonasal dysplasia  ( afnd )  is a rare variant of frontonasal dysplasia characterized by distinct craniofacial  ( large fontanelle ,  hypertelorism ,  bifid nasal tip ,  nasal clefting ,  brachycephaly ,  median cleft face ,  carp - shaped mouth )  ,  brain  ( interhemispheric lipoma ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum )  ,  and limb  ( tibial hypoplasia / aplasia ,  club foot ,  symmetric preaxial polydactyly of the feet and bilateral clubbed and thickened nails of halluces )  malformations as well as intellectual disability .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation between d7s554 and d7s2459 in the chromosome region 7q31 .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the strc gene .
blepharophimosis - intellectual disability syndrome ,  sbbys type is characterised by the association of congenital hypothyroidism ,  facial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  blepharophimosis ,  a bulbous nose ,  thin lip ,  low - set ears and micrognathia )  ,  postaxial polydactyly and severe intellectual deficit .
a neoplasm that arises from the ovary and originates from germ cells .
a hereditary disorder characterized by disproportionate short stature ,  a relatively large head ,  and a long triangular face early in life .
a papillary carcinoma of the thyroid gland measuring 10mm or less in diameter .
any familial hypercholesterolemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pcsk9 gene .
any stargardt disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prom1 gene .
an instance of hydroa vacciniforme that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the ldlrap1 gene ,  encoding low density lipoprotein receptor adaptor protein 1 .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the scn5a gene ,  encoding sodium channel protein type 5 subunit alpha .
an inherited form of cystic kidney disease leading to fibrosis and impaired renal function that is caused by mutations in the umod gene ,  which encodes uromodulin / tamm - horsfall mucoprotein .
a new leukoencephalopathy ,  the cach syndrome  ( childhood ataxia with central nervous system hypomyelination )  or vwm  ( vanishing white matter )  was identified on clinical and mri criteria .
dominant beta - thalassemia is a form of beta - thalassemia resulting in moderate to severe anemia .
sickle cell anemias are chronic hemolytic diseases that may induce three types of acute accidents: severe anemia ,  severe bacterial infections ,  and ischemic vasoocclusive accidents  ( voa )  caused by sickle - shaped red blood cells obstructing small blood vessels and capillaries .
a rare ,  primary immunodeficiency with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance but incomplete penetrance .
any disease of a degenerative nature that affects the intervertebral disc .
any microvascular complications of diabetes ,  susceptibility in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vegfa gene .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 2q23 - q24 .3 .
any focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trpc6 gene .
megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts  ( mlc )  is a form of leukodystrophy that is characterized by infantile - onset macrocephaly ,  often with mild neurologic signs at presentation  ( such as mild motor delay )  ,  which worsen with time ,  leading to poor ambulation ,  falls ,  ataxia ,  spasticity ,  increasing seizures and cognitive decline .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 11q25 - qter .
any ypoalphalipoproteinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abca1 gene .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abca4 gene .
keratoderma hereditarium mutilans with ichthyosis is a diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma ,  characterized by honeycomb palmoplantar hyperkeratosis associated with pseudoainhum of the fifth digit of the hand ,  ichthyosis and deafness .
autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia ,  deafness and narcolepsy  ( adca - dn )  is a polymorphic disorder and a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  characterized by ataxia ,  sensorineural deafness and narcolepsy with cataplexy and dementia .
dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa pruriginosa is a rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  characterized by generalized or localized skin lesions associated with severe ,  if not intractable ,  pruritus .
alpha - thalassemia is an inherited hemoglobinopathy characterized by impaired synthesis of alpha - globin chains leading to a variable clinical picture depending on the number of affected alleles .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ttn gene .
congenital cataracts facial dysmorphism neuropathy  ( ccfdn )  syndrome is a complex developmental disorder of autosomal recessive inheritance .
any left ventricular noncompaction in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dtna gene .
a skin disease characterized by poikiloderma ,  hyperkeratotic nails ,  generalized hyperkeratosis on palms and soles ,  neutropenia ,  short stature ,  and recurrent pulmonary infections .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 10  ( spg10 )  is a rare type of hereditary spastic paraplegia that can present as either a pure form of spastic paraplegia with lower limb spasticity ,  hyperreflexia and extensor plantar responses ,  presenting in childhood or adolescence ,  or as a complex phenotype associated with additional manifestations including peripheral neuropathy with upper limb amyotrophy ,  moderate intellectual disability and parkinsonism .
any cataract  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cryaa gene .
peters anomaly  ( pa )  is a congenital corneal opacity disorder characterized by a central corneal leukoma that obstructs the pupil leading to visual loss as well as absence of the posterior corneal stroma and descemet membrane .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spata7 gene .
type 3 hemochromatosis is a form of rare hereditary hemochromatosis  ( hh )  ,  a group of diseases characterized by excessive tissue iron deposition of genetic origin .
short stature due to partial ghr deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  endocrine disease characterized by idiopathic short stature due to diminished ghr function  ( decreased ligand binding or reduced availability of receptor )  ,  thus resulting in partial insensitivity to growth hormone .
any mitochondrial proton - transporting atp synthase complex deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atpaf2 gene .
autosomal recessive proximal renal tubular acidosis  ( ar prta )  is a rare form of proximal renal tubular acidosis  ( prta )  characterized by an isolated defect in the proximal tubule leading to the decreased reabsorption of bicarbonate and consequentially to urinary bicarbonate wastage along with additional characteristic clinical features .
autosomal recessive limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2e  ( lgmd2e )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a childhood to adolescent onset of progressive pelvic -  and shoulder - girdle muscle weakness ,  particularly affecting the pelvic girdle  ( adductors and flexors of hip )  .
carney's triad is a rare non - hereditary condition characterized by gastrointestinal stromal tumors  ( gist ,  intramural mesenchymal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract with neuronal or neural crest cell origin )  ,  pulmonary chondromas and extraadrenal paragangliomas .
a dilated cardiomyopathy that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 2q14 - q22 .
aceruloplasminemia is an adult - onset disorder of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  characterized by anemia ,  retinal degeneration ,  diabetes and various neurological symptoms .
any eec syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tp63 gene .
juvenile idiopathic arthritis  ( jia )  is the term used to describe a group of inflammatory articular disorders of unknown cause that begin before the age of 16 and last over 6 weeks .
a cataract that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the crygc gene on chromosome 2q33 .
mass  ( mitral valve prolapse ,  aortic enlargement ,  skin and skeletal findings )  syndrome is a genetic disorder of connective tissue caused by mutations in the fbn1 gene .
spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress type 1 is a rare genetic motor neuron disease characterized by severe respiratory distress / respiratory failure in association with diaphragmatic eventration and palsy ,  as well as progressive ,  symmetrical ,  distal - to - proximal muscle weakness and atrophy  ( in lower limbs especially )  .
an inflammatory process of the sebaceous glands which is characterized by comedones ,  nodules ,  papules and / or pustules on the skin .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 12  ( sca12 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
complex regional pain syndrome type 1  ( crps1 )  is a form of complex regional pain syndrome in which the pain is disproportionate to any known inciting event and is characterized by continuous pain ,  allodynia ,  or hyperalgesia as well as edema ,  coloration  ( changes in skin blood flow )  ,  or abnormal sudomotor activity in the region of pain .
any advanced sleep phase syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the per2 gene .
any febrile seizures ,  familial in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the adgrv1 gene .
any duane retraction syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chn1 gene .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spg11 gene .
salla disease is the mildest form of the free sialic acid storage disorders ,  which primarily affect the nervous system .
any hereditary breast ovarian cancer syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the brca1 gene .
any fatal infantile encephalocardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sco2 gene .
any hypotrichosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the liph gene .
patent ductus arteriosus  -  bicuspid aortic valve  -  hand anomalies syndrome is a very rare heart - hand syndrome that is characterized by a variety of cardiovascular anomalies including patent arterial duct ,  bicuspid aortic valve and pseudocoarctation of the aorta in conjunction with hand anomalies such as brachydactyly and ulnar ray derivative i .e .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nphp3 gene .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the mre11a gene ,  encoding double - strand break repair protein mre11 .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the aipl1 gene .
any arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem43 gene .
an arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia associated with variation in the region 10p14 - p12 .
any febrile seizures ,  familial in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn1a gene .
pyogenic arthritis - pyoderma gangrenosum - acne syndrome is a rare pleiotropic autoinflammatory disorder of childhood ,  primarily affecting the joints and skin .
a rare ,  genetic ,  autosomal recessive axonal hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy disease characterized by prenatal onset of a severe sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy  ( reflected by reduced fetal movement and polyhydramnios )  ,  manifesting ,  at birth ,  with respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation ,  profound muscular hypotonia ,  rapidly progressing distal muscle weakness ,  and absent deep tendon reflexes ,  in the absence of contractures ,  leading to death before 8 months of age .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 11  ( sca11 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii  ( adca type iii )  characterized by the early - onset of cerebellar signs ,  eye movement abnormalities and pyramidal signs .
welander distal myopathy  ( wdm )  is a distal myopathy ,  characterized by weakness in the distal upper extremities ,  usually finger and wrist extensors which later progresses to all hand muscles and distal lower extremity ,  primarily in toe and ankle extensors .
hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy ,  okinawa type is a rare ,  genetic ,  axonal hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by the adult - onset of slowly progressive ,  symmetric ,  proximal dominant muscle weakness and atrophy ,  painful muscle cramps ,  fasciculations and distal sensory impairment ,  mostly  ( but not exclusively )  in individuals  ( and their descendents )  from the okinawa region in japan .
congenital amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia  ( camt )  is a rare inherited bone marrow failure syndrome characterized by an isolated and severe decrease in the number of platelets and megakaryocytes during the first years of life that develops into bone marrow failure with pancytopenia later in childhood .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 6p21 .3 .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex due to plakophilin deficiency  ( ebs - pd )  is a suprabasal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by generalized superficial erosions and less commonly blistering .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lca5 gene .
any progressive familial heart block in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trpm4 gene .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4b2  ( cmt4b2 )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth type 4 characterized by a severe ,  early childhood - onset of demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy ,  early - onset glaucoma ,  focally folded myelin sheaths in the peripheral nerves ,  severely reduced nerve conduction velocities ,  and the typical cmt phenotype  ( i .e .
immunodeficiency by defective expression of hla class 1 is a very rare ,  primary ,  genetic ,  immunodeficiency disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of human leukocyte antigen class i expression resulting in a non - specific clinical picture of impaired immune response and susceptibility to infections .
any tooth agenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pax9 gene .
a condition characterized by development of symptoms while standing .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the actg1 gene .
a form of syndromic craniosynostosis ,  characterized by a highly variable craniosynostosis with frontal bossing ,  turribrachycephaly and cloverleaf skull anomaly .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the des gene .
polymorphic ventricular tachycardia induced by adrenergic stress .
an autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis characterized by fine white or greyish - white scales ,  hyperkeratosis ,  moderate acanthosis ,  and moderate parakeratosis that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the cyp4f22 gene on chromosome 19p13 .
congenital muscular dystrophy type 1b is a rare ,  genetic neuromuscular disorder characterized by proximal and symmetrical muscle weakness  ( particularly of neck ,  sternomastoid ,  facial and diaphragm muscles )  ,  spinal rigidity ,  joint contractures  ( achilles tendon ,  elbows ,  hands )  ,  generalized muscle hypertrophy and early respiratory failure  ( usually in the first decade of life )  .
huntington disease - like 3 is a rare huntington disease - like syndrome characterized by childhood - onset progressive neurologic deterioration with pyramidal and extrapyramidal abnormalities ,  chorea ,  dystonia ,  ataxia ,  gait instability ,  spasticity ,  seizures ,  mutism ,  and  ( on brain mri )  progressive frontal cortical atrophy and bilateral caudate atrophy .
any autosomal recessive primary microcephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdk5rap2 gene .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 12 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a childhood -  to adulthood - onset of slowly progressive lower limb spasticity and hyperreflexia of lower extremities ,  extensor plantar reflexes ,  distal sensory impairment ,  variable urinary dysfunction and pes cavus .
diffuse panbronchiolitis is a rare chronic inflammatory obstructive pulmonary disease primarily affecting the respiratory bronchioles throughout both lungs and inducing sinobronchial infection .
stickler syndrome is an inherited vitreoretinopathy characterized by the association of ocular signs with more or less complete forms of pierre - robin sequence ,  bone disorders ,  and sensorineural deafness  ( 10% of cases )  .
mild spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia due to col2a1 mutation with early - onset osteoarthritis is a type 2 collagen - related bone disorder characterized by precocious ,  generalized osteoarthritis  ( with onset as early as childhood )  and mild ,  dysplastic spinal changes  ( flattening of vertebrae ,  irregular endplates and wedge - shaped deformities )  resulting in a mildly short trunk .
hereditary north american indian childhood cirrhosis is a severe autosomal recessive intrahepatic cholestasis that has only been described in aboriginal children from northwestern quebec .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in a mutation of disc1 on chromosome 1q42 .2 .
okamoto syndrome is characterised by congenital hydronephrosis ,  intellectual deficit ,  growth retardation ,  cleft palate ,  generalised hypotonia and a characteristic face .
becker nevus syndrome is characterized by the presence of a becker nevus in association withunderdevelopment  ( hypoplasia ) of the breast or other skin - related ,  muscular ,  or skeletal defects ,  all of which usually involve the same side of the bodyas the nevus  ( ipsilateral )  .
skeletal dysplasia with wormian bone - multiple fractures - dentinogenesis imperfecta is a skeletal disorder ,  reported in three patients to date ,  characterized clinically by multiple fractures ,  wormian bones of the skull ,  dentinogenesis imperfecta and facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism ,  periorbital fullness )  .
any wolfram syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cisd2 gene .
decreased activity of hexose - 6 - phosphatase due to autosomal recessive mutation ( s )  in the h6pd gene .
nde1 - related microhydranencephaly is a rare ,  hereditary syndrome with a central nervous system malformation as major feature characterized by extreme microcephaly and growth restriction ,  severe motor delay and mental retardation ,  and typical radiological findings of gross dilation of the ventricles resulting from the absence  ( or severe delay in the development )  of cerebral hemispheres ,  hypoplasia of the corpus callosum ,  cerebellum ,  and brainstem .
any hypobetalipoproteinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the angptl3 gene .
bohring - opitz syndrome is characterised by intrauterine growth retardation  ( iugr )  ,  failure to thrive ,  facial dysmorphism  ( prominent metopic suture and forehead nevus flammeus ,  a low frontal and temporal hairline with hirsutism ,  puffy cheeks ,  upslanting palpebral fissures ,  exophthalmos ,  hypertelorism ,  cleft lip and palate ,  retrognathia and low set ears )  ,  flexion deformities of the elbows and wrists ,  camptodactyly ,  ulnar deviation of the fingers ,  foot anomalies and severe developmental delay .
brooke - spiegler syndrome  ( bss )  is an inherited predisposition syndrome presenting with skin appendage tumors ,  namely cylindromas ,  spiradenomas and trichoepitheliomas .
tricuspid atresia is  ( ta )  a rare congenital heart malformation characterized by the congenital agenesis of tricuspid valve leading to severe hypoplasia of right ventricle  ( functionally univentricular )  .
hypertension due to gain - of - function mutations in the mineralocorticoid receptor is a rare genetic hypertension characterized by a familial severe hypertension with an onset before age 20 years ,  associated with suppressed plasma renin and low aldosterone levels in the presence of low or normal levels of the mineralocorticoid aldosterone ,  that is highly resistant to antihypertensive medication .
wiedemann - steiner syndrome is a rare genetic condition characterized by distinctive facial features ,  hairy elbows ,  short stature ,  and intellectual disability .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the six1 gene .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 1p36 .
a hereditary spastic paraplegia that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 3q27 - q28 .
dianzani autoimmune lymphoproliferative disease  ( dald )  is a very rare disorder characterized by autoimmunity ,  lymphadenopathy and / or splenomegaly .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4e  ( cmt4e )  is a congenital ,  hypomyelinating subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by a dejerine - sottas syndrome - like phenotype  ( incl .
a hyper - igm syndrome characterized by the absence of immunoglobulin class switch recombination ,  the lack of immunoglobulin somatic hypermutations ,  and lymph node hyperplasia caused by the presence of giant germinal centers .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 13  ( sca13 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
mesomelic dysplasia ,  savarirayan type is characterised by severely hypoplastic and triangular - shaped tibiae ,  and absence of the fibulae .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hspd1 gene .
an autosomal recessive disease that is characterized by brachydactyly ,  hyperphalangism of digits ,  facial dysmorphism ,  dental anomalies ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  delayed motor and mental development ,  and growth retardation and has material basis in homozygous mutation in the chsy1 gene .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4g  ( cmt4g )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by early childhood onset of progressive distal muscle weakness and atrophy ,  delayed motor development ,  prominent distal sensory impairment ,  areflexia ,  moderately reduced nerve conduction velocities ,  and foot and hand deformities in balkan  ( russe )  gypsies .
any split hand - foot malformation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tp63 gene .
an autosomal dominant disease characterized by macrocephaly ,  facial phenotypes including square outline with frontal bossing ,  'dished - out' midface ,  biparietal narrowing ,  and long philtrum ,  developmental delay and autism that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the pten gene on chromosome 10q23 .
amish nemaline myopathy is a type of nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  only observed in several families of the amish community .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 14  ( sca14 )  is a rare mild subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
sensorineural deafness with dilated cardiomyopathy is an extremely rare autosomal dominant syndrome described in two families to date and characterized by moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss manifesting during childhood ,  and associated with late - onset dilated cardiomyopathy that generally progresses to heart failure .
any paraganglioma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sdhc gene .
any autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chrnb2 gene .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chmp4b gene .
any hypotrichosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the apcdd1 gene .
autosomal recessive dopa - responsive dystonia  ( dyt5b )  is a very rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by a spectrum of symptoms ranging from those seen in dopa - responsive dystonia  ( drd )  to progressive infantile encephalopathy .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd10 on chromosome 15q15 .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 4q31 .
radio - ulnar synostosis - amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia syndrome is characterised by the association of proximal fusion of the radius and ulna with congenital amegakaryocytic thrombocytopaenia .
a form of usher syndrome type 2 that features a heterozygous frameshift mutation in the gpr98 gene and a heterozygous frameshift mutation in the pdzd7 gene .
an alzheimer's disease that is characterized by an associated with variation in the region 10q24 .
a late onset parkinson disease that has material basis in heterozygous triplication of the alpha - synuclein gene  ( snca )  on chromosome 4q22 .
a cone - rod dystrophy that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 1q12 - q24 .
a dilated cardiomyopathy that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 6q12 - q16 .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc17a8 gene .
charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  type 2b1  ( cmt2b1 ,  also referred to as cmt4c1 )  is an axonal cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy .
charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  type 2b2  ( cmt2b2 ,  also referred to as cmt4c3 )  is an axonal cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy that has been described in a large consanguineous costa rican family of spanish ancestry .
a type 1 diabetes mellitus that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 5q31 .1 - q33 .1 .
cerebro - oculo - nasal syndrome is a multisystem malformation syndrome that has been reported in about 10 patients .
familial hyperaldosteronism type ii  ( fh - ii )  is a heritable form of primary aldosteronism  ( pa )  characterized by hypertension of varying severity ,  and non glucocticoid remediable hyperaldosteronism .
familial papillary thyroid carcinoma with renal papillary neoplasia  ( fptc / prn )  is an extremely rare inherited tumor syndrome within the familial nonmedullary thyroid cancer group  ( fnmtc )  .
late - onset retinal degeneration is an inherited retinal dystrophy characterized by delayed dark adaptation and nyctalopia and drusen deposits presenting in adulthood ,  followed by cone and rod degeneration that presents in the sixth decade of life ,  which leads to central vision loss .
arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy with woolly hair and keratoderma is often associated with the gene dsp ,  encoding desmoplakin .
any fatal multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nfu1 gene .
a cerebral amyloid angiopathy that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of app on chromosome 21q21 .3 .
inherited cancer - predisposing syndrome due to biallelic brca2 mutations is a rare cancer - predisposing syndrome ,  associated with the d1 subgroup of fanconi anemia  ( fa )  ,  characterized by progressive bone marrow failure ,  cardiac ,  brain ,  intestinal or skeletal abnormalities and predisposition to various malignancies .
distal hereditary motor neuropathy ,  jerash type is a rare ,  genetic neuromuscular disease characterized by progressive ,  symmetrical ,  moderate to severe ,  distal muscle weakness and atrophy ,  without sensory involvement ,  first affecting the lower limbs  ( towards the end of the first decade )  and then involving  ( within two years )  the upper extremities .
a cataract that has material basis in variation in the region 15q21 - q22 .
an inherited blood coagulation disease characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of mildly increased bleeding ,  platelet aggregation defect ,  and impaired conversion of arachidonic acid to thromboxane a2 in platelets due to deficiency in ptgs1 activity .
a cataract that has material basis in variation in the region 9q13 - q22 .
any atopic eczema in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the flg gene .
an atopic dermatitis associated with variation in the region 20p .
an atopic dermatitis associated with variation in the region 17q25 .3 .
birdshot chorioretinopathy is a posterior uveitis characterized by multiple cream - colored ,  hypopigmented choroidal lesions in the fundus and a strong association with hla - a29 and clinically presenting with blurred vision ,  floaters ,  photopsia ,  scotoma and nyctalopia .
a congenital myasthenic syndrome characterized by postsynaptic neuromuscular junction defects ,  early - onset progressive muscle weakness ,  and prolonged opening and activity of the acetylcholine receptor channel that has material basis in heterozygous or rarely biallelic mutation in the chrne gene on chromosome 17p13 .
neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis due to citrin deficiency is a mild subtype of citrin deficiency characterized clinically by low birth weight ,  failure to thrive ,  transient intrahepatic cholestasis ,  multiple aminoacidemia ,  galactosemia ,  hypoproteinemia ,  hepatomegaly ,  decreased coagulation factors ,  hemolytic anemia ,  variable but mostly mild liver dysfunction ,  and hypoglycemia .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 2q23 - q31 .
nonaka distal myopathy  ( described in japan )  and the quadriceps - sparing autosomal recessive inclusion body myopathy type 2  ( ibm2 ;  independently described in iranian jews and later in other jewish and non - jewish populations )  constitute the same pathological entity ,  distinguished by the sparing of quadriceps .
spondylo - ocular syndrome is a very rare association of spinal and ocular manifestations that is characterized by dense cataracts ,  and retinal detachment along with generalized osteoporosis and platyspondyly .
generalized basaloid follicular hamartoma syndrome is a rare ,  genetic skin disease characterized by multiple milium - like ,  comedone - like lesions and skin - colored to hyperpigmented ,  1 to 2 mm - sized papules ,  associated with hypotrichosis and palmar / plantar pits .
an atopic dermatitis associated with variation in the region 13q12 - q14 .
an atopic dermatitis associated with variation in the region 5q31 - q33 .
dimethylglycine dehydrogenase deficiency is an extremely rare autosomal recessive glycine metabolism disorder characterized clinically in the single reported case to date by muscle fatigue and a fish - like odor .
glycine encephalopathy  ( ge )  is an inborn error of glycine metabolism characterized by accumulation of glycine in body fluids and tissues ,  including the brain ,  resulting in neurometabolic symptoms of variable severity .
any parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pink1 gene .
3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaryl - coa synthase deficiency  ( hmg - coa synthase deficiency )  is a rare autosomal recessively inherited disorder of ketone body metabolism ,  reported in less than 20 patients to date ,  characterized clinically by episodes of decompensation  ( often associated with gastroenteritis or fasting )  that present with vomiting ,  lethargy ,  hepatomegaly ,  non ketotic hypoglycemia and ,  in rare cases ,  coma .
a holoprosencephaly that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 2q37 .1 - q37 .3 .
metaphyseal dysplasia ,  braun - tinschert type is characterised by metapyhseal undermodeling with broadening of the long bones and femora with an 'erlenmeyer flask'' appearance ,  expansion and bowing of the radii with severe varus deformity and flat exostoses of the long bones at the metadiaphyseal junctions .
acro - pectoral syndrome is characterized by a combination of distal limb abnormalities  ( syndactyly of all fingers and toes ,  preaxial polydactyly in the feet and / or hands )  and upper sternum malformations .
transaldolase deficiency is an inborn error of the pentose phosphate pathway that presents in the neonatal or antenatal period with hydrops fetalis ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  hepatic dysfunction ,  thrombocytopenia ,  anemia ,  and renal and cardiac abnormalities .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 3q22 .
propionic acidemia  ( pa )  is an organic aciduria caused by the deficient activity of the propionyl coenzyme a carboxylase and is characterized by life threatening episodes of metabolic decompensation ,  neurological dysfunction and that may be complicated by cardiomyopathy .
 ( 2p13 .1 )  .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fam161a gene .
hemochromatosis type 4  ( also called ferroportin disease )  is a form of rare hereditary hemochromatosis  ( hh )  ,  a group of diseases characterized by excessive tissue iron deposition of genetic origin .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the matr3 gene .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2c  ( cmt2c )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ,  characterized by the association of vocal cord anomalies ,  impairment of respiratory muscles and sensorineural hearing loss with the distal hands and feet weakness .
a benign myopathy with symptoms and signs of muscular hyperexcitability .
neuroferritinopathy is a late - onset type of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  characterized by progressive chorea or dystonia and subtle cognitive deficits .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rps28 gene .
genitopatellar syndrome is a rare congenital patellar anomaly syndrome characterized by patellar aplasia or hypoplasia associated with microcephaly ,  characteristic coarse facial features  ( microcephaly ,  bitemporal narrowing ,  large ,  broad nose with high nasal bridge ,  prominent cheeks and micro / retrognathia or prognathism )  ,  arthrogryposis of the hips and knees ,  urogenital abnormalities and intellectual deficiency .
a disease arising from a defect of carnitine acetyltransferase causing disruption of whole - body glucose homeostasis and muscle - specific loss of function results in reduced metabolic control ,  which resembles the insulin resistant state .
an inflammatory disorder of the cilliary body in the uvea that affects healthy ,  younger individuals who are often asymptomatic .
an alzheimer's disease that is characterized by an associated with variation in the region 10p13 .
any atrioventricular septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the creld1 gene .
monosomy 22q13 syndrome  ( deletion 22q13 .3 syndrome or phelan - mcdermid syndrome )  is a chromosome microdeletion syndrome characterized by neonatal hypotonia ,  global developmental delay ,  normal to accelerated growth ,  absent to severely delayed speech ,  and minor dysmorphic features .
an alveolar soft part sarcoma occurring in adults .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 4q35 - qter .
any parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the park7 gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myo6 gene .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 5q31 .
a disorder characterized by a preoccupation with gambling and the excitement that gambling with increasing risk provides .
juvenile primary lateral sclerosis  ( jpls )  is a very rare motor neuron disease characterized by progressive upper motor neuron dysfunction leading to loss of the ability to walk with wheelchair dependence ,  and subsequently ,  loss of motor speech production .
monogenic diabetes caused by inactivating mutation ( s )  in the pdx1 gene ,  encoding pancreas / duodenum homeobox protein 1 .
monogenic diabetes caused by inactivating mutation ( s )  in the gene neurod1 ,  encoding neurogenic differentiation 1 .
hypotonia - cystinuria syndrome  ( hcs )  is a rare syndrome including neonatal and infantile hypotonia and failure to thrive ,  cystinuria type 1 and nephrolithiasis ,  growth retardation due to growth hormone deficiency ,  and minor facial dysmorphism .
huntington disease - like 2  ( hdl2 )  is a severe neurodegenerative disorder considered part of the neuroacanthocytosis syndromes characterized by a triad of movement ,  psychiatric ,  and cognitive abnormalities .
persistent polyclonal b - cell lymphocytosis  ( ppbl )  is a rare ,  generally benign ,  lymphoproliferative hematological disease characterized by: chronic ,  stable ,  persistent ,  polyclonal lymphocytosis of memory b - cell origin ,  the presence of binucleated lymphocytes in the peripheral blood ,  and a polyclonal increase in serum immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 15q25 - q26 .
autosomal dominant intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type b is a rare hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by intermediate motor median nerve conduction velocities  ( usually between 25 and 45 m / s )  and signs of both demyelination and axonal degeneration in nerve biopsies .
autosomal dominant intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type a is a rare hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by intermediate motor median nerve conduction velocities  ( usually between 25 and 45 m / s )  and signs of both demyelination and axonal degeneration in nerve biopsies .
phace is an acronym used to describe a syndrome characterised by the association of posterior fossa brain malformations ,  large facial haemangiomas ,  anatomical anomalies of the cerebral arteries ,  aortic coarctation and other cardiac anomalies ,  and eye abnormalities .
autosomal recessive form of craniosynostosis .
any autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the aloxe3 gene .
episodic ataxia type 4  ( ea4 )  is a very rare form of hereditary episodic ataxia characterized by late - onset episodic ataxia ,  recurrent attacks of vertigo ,  and diplopia .
episodic ataxia type 3  ( ea3 )  is a very rare form of hereditary episodic ataxia characterized by vestibular ataxia ,  vertigo ,  tinnitus ,  and interictal myokymia .
oculocutaneous albinism type 4  ( oca4 )  is a type of oca characterized by varying degrees of skin and hair hypopigmentation ,  numerous ocular changes and misrouting of the optic nerves at the chiasm .
lig4 syndrome is a hereditary disorder associated with impaired dna double - strand break repair mechanisms and characterized by microcephaly ,  unusual facial features ,  growth and developmental delay ,  skin anomalies ,  and pancytopenia ,  which is associated with combined immunodeficiency  ( cid )  .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2f  ( cmt2f )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
a congenital muscular dystrophy characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of muscular dystrophy with variable penetrance of intellectual disability and structural brain abnormalities that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the fkrp gene on chromosome 19q13 .3 .
camurati - engelmann disease not associated with tgfb1
spinocerebellar ataxia type 15 / 16  ( sca15 / 16 )  is a rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
a waardenburg's syndrome characterized by pigmentary abnormalities of the hair ,  skin ,  and eyes ,  congenital sensorineural hearing loss ,  and absence of lateral displacement of the inner canthus of each eye that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 8p23 .
glycine n - methyltransferase deficiency  ( gnmt deficiency )  is a very rare condition characterized by persistent and isolated excess levels of methionine in the blood  ( hypermethioninemia )  .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 16p .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 19p13 .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 14q11 - q12 .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sgcd gene .
a multifocal neoplasm with perivascular epithelioid cell differentiation affecting almost exclusively females of child - bearing age .
kufor - rakeb syndrome  ( krs )  is a rare genetic neurodegenerative disorder characterized by juvenile parkinsonism ,  pyramidal degeneration  ( dystonia )  ,  supranuclear palsy ,  and cognitive impairment .
familial dyskinesia and facial myokymia  ( fdfm )  is a rare paroxysmal movement disorder ,  with childhood or adolescent onset ,  characterized by paroxysmal choreiform ,  dystonic ,  and myoclonic movements involving the limbs  ( mostly distal upper limbs )  ,  neck and / or face ,  which can progressively increase in both frequency and severity until they become nearly constant .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmc1 gene .
split - hand / foot malformation mapped to chromosome 2q31 .
any van der woude syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grhl3 gene .
any seckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rbbp8 gene .
acute hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis ( ahl )  is a veryrareform of acute disseminated encephalomyelitis that usuallyresults indeath .
hyperinsulinism - hyperammonemia syndrome  ( hiha )  is a frequent form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism ,  characterized by an excessive /  uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  ,  asymptomatic hyperammonemia and recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia induced by fasting and protein rich meals ,  requiring rapid and intensive treatment to prevent neurological sequelae .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnaaf3 gene .
gastrointestinal stromal tumor  ( gist )  is the most common mesenchymal neoplasm of the gastrointestinal  ( gi )  tract ,  typically presenting in adults over the age of 40  ( mean age 63 )  ,  and only rarely in children ,  in various regions of the gi tract ,  most commonly the stomach or small intestine but also less commonly in the esophagus ,  appendix ,  rectum and colon .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc26a8 gene .
hemifacial myohyperplasia  ( hmh )  is a developmental disorder that frequently affects the right side of the face and is commonly seen in males .
glucose transporter type 1  ( glut1 )  deficiency syndrome is characterized by an encephalopathy marked by childhood epilepsy that is refractory to treatment ,  deceleration of cranial growth leading to microcephaly ,  psychomotor retardation ,  spasticity ,  ataxia ,  dysarthria and other paroxysmal neurological phenomena often occurring before meals .
type 2 crigler - najjar syndrome  ( cns2 )  is a hereditary disorder of bilirubin metabolism characterized by unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia due to reduced and inducible activity of hepatic bilirubin glucuronosyltransferase  ( gt )  .
involuntary twitching of the eyelid .
fumaric aciduria  ( fa )  ,  an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder ,  is most often characterized by early onset but non - specific clinical signs: hypotonia ,  severe psychomotor impairment ,  convulsions ,  respiratory distress ,  feeding difficulties and frequent cerebral malformations ,  along with a distinctive facies .
glucose - galactose malabsorption  ( ggm )  is a very rare ,  potentially lethal ,  genetic metabolic disease characterized by impaired glucose - galactose absorption resulting in severe watery diarrhea and dehydration with onset inthe neonatal period .
familial digital arthropathy - brachydactyly is characterised by the association of arthropathy of interphalangeal ,  metacarpophalangeal and metatarsophalangeal joints with brachydactyly of the middle and distal phalanges .
a form of hyper igm syndrome characterized by mutations of the cd40 gene .
bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria  ( bfpp )  is a sub - type of polymicrogyria  ( pmg )  ,  a cerebral cortical malformation characterized by excessive cortical folding and abnormal cortical layering ,  that involves the frontoparietal region of the brain and that presents with hypotonia ,  developmental delay ,  moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  pyramidal signs ,  epileptic seizures ,  non progressive cerebellar ataxia ,  dysconjugate gaze and / or strabismus .
any familial pancreatic carcinoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the palld gene .
carney - stratakis syndrome is a recently described familial syndrome characterized by gastrointestinal stromal tumors  ( gist )  and paragangliomas ,  often at multiple sites .
alzheimer's disease with an early onset  ( starts before the age of 65 )  .
primary intraosseous venous malformation is a rare ,  genetic vascular anomaly characterized by severe blood vessel expansion  ( most frequently within the craniofacial bones )  with painless bone enlargement  ( usually of mandibule ,  maxilla and / or orbital ,  nasal ,  and frontal bones )  ,  typically resulting in facial asymmetry and contour deformation .
any usher syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ush1g gene .
oculocutaneous albinism type 1b  ( oca1b )  is a type of oca1 characterized by skin and hair hypopigmentation ,  nystagmus ,  reduced iris and retinal pigment and misrouting of the optic nerves .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nphp4 gene .
any senior - loken syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nphp4 gene .
hurler syndrome is the most severe form of mucopolysaccharidosis type 1  ( mps1 )  ,  a rare lysosomal storage disease ,  characterized by skeletal abnormalities ,  cognitive impairment ,  heart disease ,  respiratory problems ,  enlarged liver and spleen ,  characteristic facies and reduced life expectancy .
hurler - scheie syndrome is the intermediate form of mucopolysaccharidosis type 1  ( mps1 )  between the two extremes hurler syndrome and scheie syndrome  ;  it is a rare lysosomal storage disease ,  characterized by skeletal deformities and a delay in motor development .
scheie syndrome is the mildest form of mucopolysaccharidosis type 1  ( mps1 )  ,  a rare lysosomal storage disease ,  characterized by skeletal deformities and a delay in motor development .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 6p24 .1 - p22 .3 .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the otoa gene .
any parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrrk2 gene .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia type 5 is a multiple epiphyseal dysplasia characterized by an early - onset of pain and stiffness  ( involving knee and hip )  ,  progressive deformity of the extremities and precocious osteoarthritis associated with delayed and irregular ossification of epiphyses .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the whrn gene .
distal spinal muscular atrophy type 3 is a rare neuromuscular disease characterized by progressive muscular weakness and atrophy predominantly affecting distal parts of limbs ,  later involvement of proximal and trunk muscles with marked hyperlordosis and late diaphragmatic dysfunction .
b4galt1 - cdg is a congenital disorder of glycosylation characterised by macrocephaly due to dandy - walker malformation ,  hydrocephaly ,  hypotonia ,  myopathy and coagulation anomalies .
a spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia that is characterized by the prenatal onset of extreme short stature ,  an adult height of less than 85 cm ,  hypodontia ,  and mild mental retardation .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myo3a gene .
any nasopharyngeal carcinoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tp53 gene .
chronic infantile neurological ,  cutaneous ,  and articular  ( cinca )  syndrome is characterised by skin rash ,  joint involvement ,  chronic meningitis with granulocytes and ,  in some cases ,  sensorineural hearing loss and ocular signs .
an alzheimer's disease that is characterized by an associated with variation in the region 20p12 .2 - q11 .21 .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  al - gazali type is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  macrocephaly and facial dysmorphism .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 17  ( sca17 )  is a rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
small breaks in the elastin - filled tissue of the retina .
 ( 22q13 .33 )  .
any moyamoya disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rnf213 gene .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 19 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a slowly progressive and relatively benign spastic paraplegia presenting in adulthood with spastic gait ,  lower limb hyperreflexia ,  extensor plantar responses ,  bladder dysfunction  ( urinary urgency and / or incontinence )  ,  and mild sensory and motor peripheral neuropathy .
inflammation of the nasal mucous membranes caused by an ige - mediated response to external allergens .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2i  ( lgmd2i )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy that presents a highly variable age of onset and phenotypic spectrum typically characterized by slowly progressive proximal weakness of the pelvic and shoulder girdle musculature  ( predominantly affecting the lower limbs )  ,  frequently associated with waddling gait ,  scapular winging ,  calf and tongue hypertrophy ,  exercise - induced myalgia ,  and myoglobinuria and / or elevated creatine kinase serum levels .
this newly described syndrome is characterized by cloverleaf skull ,  limb anomalies ,  facial dysmorphism and multiple congenital anomalies .
a meningioma that is transmitted from the parents to an offspring .
amish lethal microcephaly is a very rare syndrome characterized by extreme microcephaly and early death ,  within the first year .
any familial thyroid dyshormonogenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the duox2 gene .
dravet syndrome  ( ds )  is a genetic epilepsy of childhood characterized by a variety of drug - resistant seizures often induced by fever ,  presenting in previously healthy children ,  and which frequently leads to cognitive and motor impairment .
anonychia - microcephaly syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly disorder characterized by anonychia congenita totalis and microcephaly ,  and normal intelligence along with some minor anomalies including single transverse palmar creases ,  fifth - finger clinodactyly and widely - spaced teeth .
infantile - onset ascending hereditary spastic paralysis  ( iahsp )  is a very rare motor neuron disease characterized by severe spasticity of the lower limbs in early life ,  progression of spasticity to the upper limbs in late childhood ,  and dysarthria .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 10p11 .23 - q21 .1 .
spinocerebellar ataxia with axonal neuropathy type 1 is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by a late childhood onset of slowly progressive cerebellar ataxia .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 7 is a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an onset usually in adulthood  ( but ranging from 10 - 72 years )  of progressive bilateral lower limb weakness and spasticity ,  sphincter dysfunction ,  decreased vibratory sense at the ankles and with additional manifestations including optical neuropathy ,  nystagmus ,  strabismus ,  decreased hearing ,  scoliosis ,  pes cavus ,  motor and sensory neuropathy ,  amyotrophy ,  blepharoptosis and ophthalmoplegia .
autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome  ( alps )  with recurrent viral infections is a rare genetic disorder characterized by lymphadenopathy and / or splenomegaly and recurrent infections due to herpes viruses .
any inherited susceptibility to asthma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ptgdr gene .
a benign ,  usually self - limited fibro - osseous lesion of the bone that affects infants and children .
a cataract that has material basis in mutation in the region 2p12 .
horizontal gaze palsy with progressive scoliosis  ( hgpps )  is a rare congenital autosomal recessive disease ,  presenting in children and adolescents ,  and characterized by progressive scoliosis along with the absence of conjugate horizontal eye movements and associated with failure of the somatosensory and corticospinal neuronal tracts to decussate in the medulla .
autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia - saccadic intrusion syndrome is a rare hereditary ataxia characterized by a progressive cerebellar ataxia associated with disruption of visual fixation by saccadic intrusions  ( overshooting horizontal saccades with macrosaccadic oscillations and increased velocity of larger saccades )  .
a syndrome of multiple congenital anomalies and is characterized by ocular manifestations  ( uni -  or bilateral duane anomaly  ( 95% of cases )  ,  congenital optic nerve hypoplasia or optic disc coloboma )  ,  bilateral deafness and radial ray malformation that can include thenar hypoplasia and / or hypoplasia or aplasia of the thumbs ;  hypoplasia or aplasia of the radii ;  shortening and radial deviation of the forearms ;  triphalangeal thumbs ;  and duplication of the thumb  ( preaxial polydactyly )  .the phenotype overlaps with other sall4 >  / i >  related disorders including acro - renal - ocular syndrome and holt - oram syndrome  ( see these terms )  .
any smith - mccort dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dym gene .
lathosterolosis is an extremely rare inborn error of sterol biosynthesis characterized by facial dysmorphism ,  congenital anomalies  ( including limb and kidney anomalies )  ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay and liver disease .
any coronary artery disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cx3cr1 gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 19  ( sca19 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
any meckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem67 gene .
classic bartter syndrome is a type of bartter syndrome ,  characterized by a milder clinical picture than the antenatal / infantile subtype ,  and presenting with failure to thrive ,  hypokalemic alkalosis ,  increased levels of plasma renin and aldosterone ,  low blood pressure and vascular resistance to angiotensin ii .
developmental malformations - deafness - dystonia syndrome is characterised by the association of midline malformations ,  sensory hearing loss ,  and a delayed - onset generalised dystonia syndrome .
any familial glucocorticoid deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mrap gene .
a congenital defect characterized by the failure of the ductus arteriosus to close soon after birth .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crbn gene .
any coenzyme q10 deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the coq2 gene .
lissencephaly due to lis1 mutation is a cerebral malformation with epilepsy characterized predominantly by posterior isolated lissencephaly with developmental delay ,  intellectual disability and epilepsy that usually evolves from west syndrome to lennox - gastaut syndrome .
any arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dsp gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccdc50 gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 21  ( sca21 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 18  ( sca18 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
sensory ataxic neuropathy - dysarthria - ophthalmoparesis syndrome is characterised by adult - onset severe sensory ataxic neuropathy ,  dysarthria and chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia .
any congenital vitamin k - dependent coagulation factors combined deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vkorc1 gene .
bothnia retinal dystrophy is a rare form of retinal dystrophy ,  seen mostly in northern sweden ,  presenting in early childhood with night blindness and progressive maculopathy with a decrease in visual acuity ,  eventually leading to blindness by adulthood .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rlbp1 gene .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the csrp3 gene .
a frontotemporal dementia characterized by variable phenotypic expression typically including social ,  behavioral ,  or language deterioration ,  rather than memory or motor deficits and the presence of tardbp - positive inclusions that has material basis in mutation in the grn gene on chromosome 17q21 .31 .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tcap gene .
a myoclonic dystonia characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 18p11 .
a migraine disorder characterized by episodes that occur in the absence of preceding focal neurological symptoms .
joint inflammation associated with psoriasis .
any inherited isolated nail anomaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col7a1 gene .
type ii granular corneal dystrophy  ( gcdii )  is a rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by irregular - shaped well - demarcated granular deposits in the superficial central corneal stroma ,  and progressive visual impairment .
any familial atrial fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnq1 gene .
distal myopathy with early respiratory muscle involvement is a mid - life onset distal myopathy characterised by tibialis anterior weakness and progressive respiratory muscle involvement present from the onset of the disease .
a hereditary spastic paraplegia that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 13q14 .
a brain disease characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of fragile small blood vessels in the brain ,  leukoencephalopathy ,  increased risk of stroke ,  seizure and migraine and in some cases axenfeld - riegar anomaly that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the col4a1 gene on chromosome 13q34 .
any non - syndromic pontocerebellar hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vrk1 gene .
lethal congenital contracture syndrome type 2 is a rare arthrogryposis syndrome characterized by multiple congenital contactures  ( typically extended elbows and flexed knees )  ,  micrognathia ,  anterior horn cell degeneration ,  skeletal muscle atrophy  ( mainly in the lower limbs )  ,  presence of a markedly distended urinary bladder and absence of hydrops ,  pterygia and bone fractures .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex superficialis  ( ebss )  is a suprabasal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by generalized or acral superficial erosions in the absence of blisters .
annular epidermolytic ichthyosis  ( aei )  is a rare clinical variant of epidermolytic ichthyosis  ( ei )  characterized by the presence of a blistering phenotype at birth and the development from early infancy of annular polycyclic erythematous scales on the trunk and extremities .
niemann - pick disease type b is a mild subtype of niemann - pick disease ,  an autosomal recessive lysosomal disease ,  and is characterized clinically by onset in childhood with hepatosplenomegaly ,  growth retardation ,  and lung disorders such as infections and dyspnea
griscelli syndrome type 2  ( gs2 )  is a rare ,  inherited condition that affects the skin ,  hair ,  and immune system .
niemann - pick disease type c2 is a rare metabolic condition that affects many different parts of the body .
neonatal ichthyosis - sclerosing cholangitis  ( nisch syndrome )  is a very rare complex ichthyosis syndrome characterized by scalp hypotrichosis ,  scarring alopecia ,  ichthyosis and sclerosing cholangitis .
any generalised epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clcn2 gene .
juvenile absence epilepsy  ( jae )  is a genetic epilepsy with onset occurring around puberty .
autosomal dominant osteopetrosis type i  ( ado i )  is a sclerosing bone disorder characterized by skeletal densification that predominantly involves the cranial vault .
a hyperostosis that has material basis in a mutation in the lrp5 gene which results in increased bone density and bony structures located in palate .
any neuronopathy ,  distal hereditary motor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dctn1 gene .
any striate palmoplantar keratoderma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt1 gene .
curly hair - acral keratoderma - caries syndrome is an extremely rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by premature loss of curly ,  brittle ,  dry hair ,  premature loss of teeth due to caries ,  nail dystrophy with thickening of the finger -  and toe - nails ,  acral keratoderma and hypohidrosis .
hypotrichosis - osteolysis - periodontitis - palmoplantar keratoderma syndrome is an extremely rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by hypotrichosis universalis with mild to severe scarring alopecia ,  acro - osteolysis ,  onychogryphosis ,  thin and tapered fingertips ,  periodontitis and caries leading to premature teeth loss ,  linear or reticular palmoplantar keratoderma and erythematous ,  scaling ,  psoriasis - like skin lesions on arms and legs .
an autoimmune disorder comprising tubulointerstitial nephritis and uveitis .
dyt13 type primary dystonia is characterized by focal or segmental dystonia with cranial ,  cervical ,  or upper limb involvement .
interleukin - 1 receptor - associated kinase - 4  ( irak - 4 )  deficiency is an immunodeficiency associated with increased susceptibility to invasive infections caused by pyogenic bacteria .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2i  ( cmt2i )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ,  characterized by a late onset with severe sensory loss  ( paresthesia and hypoesthesia )  associated with distal weakness ,  mainly of the legs ,  and absent or reduced deep tendon reflexes .
a form of cmt1 ,  caused by mutations in the egr2 gene  ( 10q21 .1 )  ,  with a variable severity and age of onset  ( from infancy to adulthood )  ,  that usually presents with gait abnormalities ,  progressive wasting and weakness of distal limb muscles ,  with possible later involvement of proximal muscles ,  foot deformity and severe reduction in nerve conduction velocity .
a childhood absence epilepsy that is characterized by mutations in the gabrg2 gene ,  which cause a spectrum of seizure disorders ,  ranging from early - onset isolated febrile seizures  ( fs )  to childhood absence epilepsy  ( cae )  to generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus ,  type 3  ( gefs + 3 )  ,  which tends to represent a more severe phenotype .
any generalised epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacnb4 gene .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 5q31 .1 - q32 .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2e  ( cmt2e )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
any hereditary late onset parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gigyf2 gene .
leukoencephalopathy - ataxia - hypodontia - hypomyelination syndrome is characterised by ataxia ,  delayed dentition ,  hypomyelination and cerebral atrophy .
noonan - like syndrome with loose anagen hair  ( ns / lah )  is a noonan - related syndrome ,  characterized by facial anomalies suggestive of noonan syndrome  ;  a distinctive hair anomaly described as loose anagen hair syndrome  ;  frequent congenital heart defects ;  distinctive skin features with darkly pigmented skin ,  keratosis pilaris ,  eczema or occasional neonatal ichtyosis  ;  and short stature ,  often associated with a gh deficiency and psychomotor delays .
charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  type 2h  ( cmt2h ,  also referred to as cmt4c2 )  is an axonal cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy associated with pyramidal involvement .
a form of cmt1 ,  with a variable clinical presentation that can range from severe impairment with onset in childhood to mild impairment appearing during adulthood .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2j  ( cmt2j )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ,  characterized by a relatively late onset ,  pupillary abnormalities and deafness ,  in most patients ,  associated with distal weakness and muscle atrophy .
any benign familial infantile epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn2a gene .
familial hypercholanemia is a very rare genetic disorder characterized clinically by elevated serum bile acid concentrations ,  itching ,  and fat malabsorption reported in patients of old order amish descent .
congenital bile acid synthesis defect type 1  ( bas defect type 1 )  is the most common anomaly of bile acid synthesis characterized by variable manifestations of progressive cholestatic liver disease ,  and fat malabsorption .
acrocapitofemoral dysplasia is a recently delineated skeletal dysplasia ,  characterized clinically by short stature of variable degrees with short limbs ,  brachydactyly and narrow thorax .
a myelodysplastic / myeloproliferative neoplasm of childhood that is characterized by proliferation principally of the granulocytic and monocytic lineages .
autosomal dominant intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type d is a rare hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by intermediate motor median nerve conduction velocities  ( usually between 25 and 45 m / s )  and signs of both axonal degeneration and demyelination without onion bulbs in nerve biopsies .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 1c  ( lgmd1c )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a childhood to adulthood onset of progressive ,  mild - to - moderate proximal muscle weakness ,  calf hypertrophy ,  and variable muscle cramping / stiffness or myalgia ,  after exercise .
craniolenticulosutural dysplasia  ( clsd )  ,  also known as boyadjiev - jabs syndrome ,  is characterized by the specific association of large and late - closing fontanels ,  hypertelorism ,  early - onset cataract and mild generalized skeletal dysplasia .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myo6 gene .
alzheimer's disease with an early onset  ( starts before the age of 65 )  .
autosomal recessive charcot - marie - tooth disease with hoarseness  ( arcmt2k or cmt4c4 )  is a severe early - onset form of axonal cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy .
any focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cd2ap gene .
any autoimmune disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the foxd3 gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myo1a gene .
any osteoarthritis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the aspn gene .
congenital muscular dystrophy type 1a  ( mcd1a )  belongs to a group of neuromuscular disorders with onset at birth or infancy characterized by hypotonia ,  muscle weakness and muscle wasting .
tufted angioma is a very rare ,  benign ,  cutaneous ,  slow - growing ,  vascular tumor mostly developing in infancy or early childhood .
caudal duplication  ( cd )  is a rare developmental anomaly in which structures derived from the embryonic cloaca and notochord are duplicated to varying extents .
1p36 deletion syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by distinctive facial dysmorphic features ,  hypotonia ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  seizures ,  heart defects ,  hearing impairment and prenatal onset growth deficiency .
any epilepsy ,  familial adult myoclonic in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the adra2b gene .
any hypotrichosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dsg4 gene .
 ( 9q31 .1 )  .transmission is autosomal recessive .
dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans  ( dfsp )  is a rare infiltrating soft tissue sarcoma ,  generally of low grade malignancy ,  arising from the dermis of the skin and characteristically associated with a specific chromosomal translocation t ( 17 ; 22 )  .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fscn2 gene .
microphthalmia with brain and digit anomalies is characterised by anophthalmia or microphthalmia ,  retinal dystrophy ,  and / or myopia ,  associated in some cases with cerebral anomalies .
any peeling skin syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the csta gene .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gata4 gene .
fetal gaucher disease is the perinatal lethal form of gaucher disease  ( gd )  .
diaphanospondylodysostosis is characterized by absent ossification of the vertebral bodies and sacrum associated with variable anomalies .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 3  ( pch3 )  ,  also known as cerebellar atrophy with progressive microcephaly  ( clam )  is a rare form of pontocerebellar hypoplasia with autosomal recessive transmission characterized neonatally by hypotonia and impaired swallowing and from infancy onward by seizures ,  optic atrophy and short stature ,  but none of the clinical findings are specific for pch3 .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fus gene .
familial acute necrotizing encephalopathy or adane is a potentially fatal neurological disease characterised by neuropathological lesions principally involving the brainstem ,  thalamus and putamen .
retinal macular dystrophy type 2 is a rare ,  genetic macular dystrophy disorder characterized by slowly progressive ''bull's eye'' maculopathy associated ,  in most cases ,  with mild decrease in visual acuity and central scotomata .
sweet's syndrome  ( the eponym for acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis )  is characterized by a constellation of clinical symptoms ,  physical features ,  and pathologic findings which include fever ,  neutrophilia ,  tender erythematous skin lesions  ( papules ,  nodules ,  and plaques )  ,  and a diffuse infiltrate consisting predominantly of mature neutrophils that are typically located in the upper dermis .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in a mutation on chromosome 10q22 .3 .
hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy ,  type 1b  ( hsan1b )  is characterized by the association of type 1 hsan with paroxysmal cough and gastroesophageal reflux  ( gor )  .
primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the endometrium  ( mucous membrane that lines the endometrial cavity )  .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem216 gene .
dpagt1 - cdg is a form of congenital disorders of n - linked glycosylation characterized by hypotonia ,  intractable seizures ,  developmental delay ,  microcephaly and severe fetal hypokinesia .
a temporal lobe epilepsy characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of complex or partial seizures and childhood febrile seizures that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 12q22 - q23 .3 .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2d  ( lgmd2d )  is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by childhood onset of progressive proximal weakness of the shoulder and pelvic girdle muscles ,  resulting in difficulty walking ,  scapular winging ,  calf hypertrophy and contractures of the achilles tendon ,  which lead to a tiptoe gait pattern .
 ( 11q14 .1 )  ,  resulting in a block in the initial step of protein glycosylation .
any hyper - igm syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ung gene .
a complication of ovulation induction in infertility treatment .
a retinitis pigmentosa that has material basis in mutation in the prph2 gene on chromosome 6p21 .
lipodystrophy - intellectual disability - deafness syndrome is an extremely rare form of genetic lipodystrophy ,  reported in 3 patients from one family to date ,  characterized by generalized congenital lipodystrophy ,  low birth weight ,  progressive sensorineural deafness occurring in childhood ,  intellectual deficit ,  progressive osteopenia ,  delayed skeletal maturation ,  skeletal abnormalities described as slender ,  undermineralized tubular bones ,  and dense metaphyseal striations in the distal femur ,  ulna and radius of older patients .
the 8q22 .1 microdeletion syndrome or nablus mask - like facial syndrome is a rare microdeletion syndrome associated with a distinct facial appearance .
adult - onset foveomacular vitelliform dystrophy  ( aofvd )  is a genetic macular dystrophy characterized by blurred vision ,  metamorphopsia and mild visual impairment secondary to a slightly elevated ,  yellow ,  egg yolk - like lesion located in the foveal or parafoveal region .
any non - syndromic synpolydactyly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fbln1 gene .
a form of hyper igm syndrome which is a defect in class switch recombination downstream of the aicda gene that does not impair somatic hypermutation .
tropical pancreatitis is a rare pancreatic disease of juvenile onset occurring mainly in tropical developing countries and characterized by chronic non - alcoholic pancreatitis manifesting with abdominal pain ,  steatorrhea and fibrocalculous pancreatopathy .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpgrip1 gene .
neutrophil immunodeficiency syndrome is a primary immunodeficiency characterized by neutrophilia with severe neutrophil dysfunction ,  leukocytosis ,  a predisposition to bacterial infections and poor wound healing ,  including an absence of pus in infected areas .
infectious disease that is transmitted through the bite of hematophagous female phlebotomine sand flies .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 6q26 - q27 .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 25  ( spg25 )  is a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by adult - onset spastic paraplegia associated with spinal pain that radiates to the upper or lower limbs and is related to disk herniation  ( with minor spondylosis )  ,  as well as mild sensorimotor neuropathy .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the p2rx2 gene .
cataract - congenital heart disease - neural tube defect syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by sacral neural tube defects resulting in tethered cord ,  atrial and / or ventricular septal heart defects  ( that are detected in infancy )  ,  bilateral ,  symmetrical hyperopia ,  rapidly progressive early childhood cataracts ,  bilateral aphakic glaucoma ,  and abnormal facial features  ( low frontal hairline ,  small ears ,  short philtrum ,  prominent ,  widely spaced central incisors ,  and micrognathia )  .
a chronic myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by the expression of the bcr - abl1 fusion gene .
hermansky - pudlak syndrome type 2  ( hps - 2 )  is a type of hermansky - pudlak syndrome  ( hps )  ,  a multi - system disorder characterized by oculocutaneous albinism ,  bleeding diathesis and neutropenia .
autosomal dominant slowed nerve conduction velocity is a hereditary demyelinating motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by slowed nerve conduction velocities ,  in the absence of clinically apparent neurological deficits ,  gait abnormalities or muscular atrophy ,  associated with a germline mutation in the arghef10 gene .
an anxiety disorder characterized by an intense ,  irrational fear cued by the presence or anticipation of a specific object or situation .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 22q11 .21 - q12 .1 .
an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the hgf gene ,  encoding hepatocyte growth factor receptor .
parathyroid carcinoma  ( prtc )  is a very rare ,  slow - growing ,  clinically serious endocrine tumor that generally develops in mid - adulthood .
lelis syndrome is characterised by the association of ectodermal dysplasia  ( hypotrichosis and hypohidrosis )  with acanthosis nigricans .
any coronary artery disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mef2a gene .
autosomal dominant intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type c is a rare hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by intermediate motor median nerve conduction velocities  ( usually between 25 and 60 m / s )  .
glaucoma - ectopia - microspherophakia - stiff joints - short stature syndrome is characterized by progressive joint stiffness ,  glaucoma ,  short stature and lens dislocation .
autosomal recessive intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type a is a subtype of autosomal recessive intermediate charcot - marie - tooth  ( cmt )  disease characterized by severe ,  early childhood - onset cmt neuropathy with prominent pes equinovarus deformity and impairment of hand muscles .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of multiple capillary malformations  ( cm )  with an arteriovenous malformation  ( avm )  and arteriovenous fistulas .
parkes weber syndrome  ( pws )  is a rare congenital condition characterized by a large number of abnormal blood vessels .the main signs and symptoms of pws typically include a capillary malformation on the skin ;  hypertrophy  ( excessive growth )  ofthe bone and soft tissue of the affected limb ;  and multiple arteriovenousfistulas  ( abnormal connections between arteries and veins )  which canpotentially lead to heart failure .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  kimberley type  ( sedk )  is characterized by short stature and premature degenerative arthropathy .
the newly described 22q11 .2 microduplication syndrome  ( dup22q11 syndrome )  is the association of a broad clinical spectrum and a duplication of the region that is deleted in patients with digeorge or velocardiofacial syndrome  ( dg / vcfs )  ,  establishing a complementary duplication syndrome .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that is characterized by moderate loss for low and mid frequencies and mild loss for high frequencies and has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 1q21 - q23 .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cerkl gene .
any branchiootic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the six1 gene .
any autosomal recessive primary microcephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cenpj gene .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 2p12 .
any inherited bleeding disorder ,  platelet - type in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cd36 gene .
braddock syndrome is a rare malformation syndrome with multiple congenital abnormalities ,  described in 2 siblings ,  that is characterized by vacterl  - like association in combination with pulmonary hypertension ,  laryngeal webs ,  blue sclerae ,  abnormal ears ,  persistent growth deficiency and normal intellect .
bradyopsia is characterised by prolonged electroretinal response suppression leading to difficulties adjusting to changes in luminance ,  normal to subnormal acuity and photophobia .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 1f  ( lgmd1f )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy , with a variable age of onset ,  characterized by progressive ,  proximal weakness and wasting of the shoulder and pelvic musculature  ( with the pelvic girdle ,  and especially the ileopsoas muscle ,  being more affected )  and frequent association of calf hypertrophy ,  dysphagia ,  arachnodactyly with or without finger contractures and / or distal and axial muscle involvement .
craniosynostosis - intracranial calcification is a form of syndromic craniosynostosis ,  characterized by pancraniosynostosis ,  head circumference below the mid - parental head circumference ,  mild facial dysmorphism  ( prominent supraorbital ridges ,  mild proptosis and maxillary hypoplasia )  and calcification of the basal ganglia .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cc2d1a gene .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 3p26 .
an autosomal recessive hereditary neoplastic syndrome caused by mutations in the mutyh gene on chromosome 1p34 .1 .
reis - bcklers corneal dystrophy  ( rbcd )  ,  also known as granular corneal dystrophy type iii ,  is a rare form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by bilateral symmetrical reticular opacities in the superficial central cornea ,  with progressive visual impairment .
lattice corneal dystrophy type 3a is rare condition that affects the cornea .
depression which is considered strictly biological .
 ( 16p13 .3 )  .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in a mutation on chromosome 1p36 .2 .
larsen - like osseous dysplasia - short stature syndrome is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by a larsen - like phenotype including multiple ,  congenital ,  large joint dislocations ,  craniofacial abnormalities  ( i .e .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nmnat1 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the esrrb gene .
sick sinus syndrome is a rare cardiac rhythm disease ,  usually of the elderly ,  characterized by electrocardiographic findings of sinus bradycardia ,  atrial fibrillation ,  atrial tachycardia sinus arrest ,  or sino - atrial block ,  and that manifest with symptoms like syncope ,  dizziness ,  palpitations ,  fatigue ,  or even heart failure .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abcc9 gene .
ulnar / fibula ray defect  -  brachydactyly syndrome is a very rare malformation syndrome characterized by ulnar hypoplasia associated with hypoplastic to absent fourth and / or fifth digits ,  fibular hypoplasia ,  short stature and facial dysmorphism .
choanal atresia  -  deafness  -  cardiac defects  -  dysmorphism syndrome ,  also known as burn - mckeown syndrome ,  is an extremely rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by bilateral choanal atresia associated with a characteristic cranio - facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism with narrow palpebral fissures ,  coloboma of inferior eyelid with presence of eyelashes medial to the defect ,  prominent nasal bridge ,  thin lips ,  prominent ears )  ,  that can be accompanied by hearing loss ,  unilateral cleft lip ,  preauricular tags ,  cardiac septal defects and anomalies of the kidneys .
any inherited susceptibility to asthma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the npsr1 gene .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2g  ( cmt2g )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
any congenital generalized lipodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the agpat2 gene .
familial partial lipodystrophy ,  kobberling type ,  is a very rare form of familial partial lipodystrophy  ( fpld )  of unknown etiology characterized by lipoatrophy that is confined to the limbs and a normal or increased fat distribution of the face ,  neck ,  and trunk .
ribose - 5 - p isomerase deficiency is an extremely rare ,  hereditary ,  disorder of pentose phosphate metabolism characterized by progressive leukoencephalopathy and a highly increased ribitol and d - arabitol levels in the brain and body fluids .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vapb gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ahi1 gene .
any neuronopathy ,  distal hereditary motor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hspb1 gene .
the 15q11 - q13 microduplication  ( dup15q11 - q13 )  syndrome is characterized by neurobehavioral disorders ,  hypotonia ,  cognitive deficit ,  language delay and seizures .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grhl2 gene .
aromatic l - amino acid decarboxylase deficiency is a very rare ,  severe ,  genetic neurometabolic disorder associated with clinical manifestations related to underproduction of serotonin and dopamine ,  mainly hypotonia ,  hypokinesia ,  ptosis oculogyric crises ,  and signs of autonomic dysfunction .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnah5 gene .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 6p21 .3 .
a primary ciliary dyskinesia that is characterized by partial absence of the inner dynein arms with variable occurrence of situs inversus and has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 15q13 .1 - q15 .1 .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hydin gene .
ichthyosis prematurity syndrome is a rare ,  syndromic congenital ichthyosis characterized by premature birth  ( at gestational weeks 30 - 32 ,  in general )  in addition to thick ,  caseous and desquamating epidermis ,  neonatal respiratory asphyxia ,  and persistent eosinophilia .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 9p22 - p21 .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that is characterized by prelingual onset with severe to profound ,  stable hearing loss and has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 1p22 .1 - p13 .3 .
hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy ,  type 5  ( hsan5 )  is characterized by loss of pain perception and impaired temperature sensitivity ,  in the absence of any other major neurological anomalies .
intellectual disability - brachydactyly - pierre robin syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability and phsychomotor delay ,  robin sequence  ( incl .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2l  ( cmt2l )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 20  ( sca20 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
aica - ribosiduria is an extremely severe inborn error of purine biosynthesis characterized clinically in the single reported case to date by profound intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy ,  dysmorphic features of the knees ,  elbows ,  and shoulders and congenital blindness .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 25  ( sca25 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
acquired partial lipodystrophy ,  or barraquer - simons syndrome ,  is characterised by the association of lipoatrophy of the upper part of the body and lipohypertrophy of the thighs .
a small - vessel necrotizing vasculitis characterised by the association of inflammation of the vessel wall and peri -  and extravascular granulomatosis .
any autosomal recessive primary microcephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the aspm gene .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  matrilin - 3 type is characterized by disproportionate early - onset dwarfism ,  bowing of the lower limbs ,  short ,  wide and stocky long bones with severe epiphyseal and metaphyseal changes ,  lumbar lordosis ,  hypoplastic iliac bones ,  flat ovoid vertebral bodies and normal hands .
growth delay due to insulin - like growth factor i deficiency is characterised by the association of intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation with sensorineural deafness and intellectual deficit .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myl3 gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myl2 gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 8  ( sca8 )  is a subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  characterized by cerebellar ataxia and cognitive dysfunction in almost three quarters of patients and pyramidal and sensory signs in approximately a third of patients .
 ( 11q23 )  .
cog7 - cdg is a congenital disorder of glycosylation characterised by dysmorphism ,  skeletal dysplasia ,  hypotonia ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  jaundice ,  cardiac insufficiency ,  recurrent infections and epilepsy .
pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatase deficiency is a very rare subtype of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  characterized by lactic acidemia in the neonatal period .
the cdg  ( congenital disorders of glycosylation )  syndromes are a group of autosomal recessive disorders affecting glycoprotein synthesis .
sudden infant death with dysgenesis of the testes  ( siddt )  syndrome is a lethal condition in infants with dysgenesis of testes .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gjc2 gene .
avascular necrosis of femoral head  ( anfh )  is a severely disabling disease characterised by progressive groin pain ,  a limping gait ,  leg length discrepancy ,  collapse of the subchondral bone ,  limitation of hip function and eventual degeneration of the hip joint requiring total hip arthroplasty .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2j  ( lgmd2j )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy that usually has a childhood onset  ( but can range from the first to third decade of life )  of severe progressive proximal weakness ,  eventually involving the distal muscles .
any dextro - looped transposition of the great arteries in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the med13l gene .
any autosomal dominant distal myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cryab gene .
any colorectal cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the galnt12 gene .
the neonatal form of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii  ( cpt ii )  deficiency ,  an inherited disorder that affects mitochondrial oxidation of long chain fatty acids  ( lcfa )  ,  is the lethal form of the disease which presents with multisystem failure .
carney complex - trismus - pseudocamptodactyly syndrome is a rare genetic heart - hand syndrome characterized by typical manifestations of the carney complex  ( spotty pigmentation of the skin ,  familial cardiac and cutaneous myxomas and endocrinopathy )  associated with trismus and distal arthrogryposis  ( presenting as involuntary contraction of distal and proximal interphalangeal joints of hands evident only on dorsiflexion of wrist and similar lower - limb contractures producing foot deformities )  .
a congenital muscular dystrophy characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of muscular dystrophy with mental retardation and structural brain abnormalities that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the large gene on chromosome 22q12 .
any orofacial cleft in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the irf6 gene .
any orofacial cleft in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the msx1 gene .
any waardenburg syndrome type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the snai2 gene .
any age - related macular degeneration in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fbln5 gene .
any genetic hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the unc13d gene .
any coronary artery disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kalrn gene .
any myopia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sco2 gene .
choanal atresia  ( ca )  is a congenital anomaly of the posterior nasal airway characterized by the obstruction of one  ( unilateral )  or both  ( bilateral )  choanal aperture ( s )  ,  with clinical manifestations ranging from acute respiratory distress to chronic nasal obstruction .
a congenital myasthenic syndrome characterized by defects in postsynaptic neuromuscular junctions with early - onset progressive muscle weakness that has material basis in mutation in the chrna1 gene on chromosome 2q .
a congenital myasthenic syndrome characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of postsynaptic neuromuscular junction defects ,  early - onset muscle weakness ,  and low amplitude of the miniature endplate potential and current that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the chrne gene on chromosome 17p13 .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia - cone - rod dystrophy syndrome is characterised by the association of spondylometaphyseal dysplasia  ( marked by platyspondyly ,  shortening of the tubular bones and progressive metaphyseal irregularity and cupping )  ,  with postnatal growth retardation and progressive visual impairment due to cone - rod dystrophy .
susceptibility to respiratory infections associated with cd8 alpha chain mutation is a rare primary immunodeficiency due to a defect in adaptive immunity characterized by the absence of cd8 +  t cells with normal immunoglobulin and specific antibody titres in blood and susceptibility to recurrent respiratory bacterial and viral infections .
any patterned macular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ctnna1 gene .
a severe combined immunodeficiency characterized by being t cell - negative ,  b cell - positive and natural killer cell - positive and that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the il7r gene on chromosome 5p13 or the cd45 gene on chromosome 1q31 .
meacham syndrome is a multiple malformation syndrome characterized by congenital diaphragmatic abnormalities ,  genital defects and cardiac malformations .
bnar syndrome is a very rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by a bifid nose  ( with bulbous nasal tip but not associated with hypertelorism )  with or without the presence of anal defects  ( i .e .
any hereditary ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rnf170 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the espn gene .
mitochondrial trifunctional protein  ( tfp )  deficiency  ( tfpd )  is a disorder of fatty acid oxidation characterized by a wide clinical spectrum ranging from severe neonatal manifestations including cardiomyopathy ,  hypoglycemia ,  metabolic acidosis ,  skeletal myopathy and neuropathy ,  liver disease and death to a mild phenotype with peripheral polyneuropathy ,  episodic rhabdomyolysis and pigmentary retinopathy . .
long chain 3 - hydroxyacyl - coa dehydrogenase deficiency  ( lchadd )  is a mitochondrial disorder of long chain fatty acid oxidation characterized in most patients by onset in infancy /  early childhood with hypoketotic hypoglycemia ,  metabolic acidosis ,  liver disease ,  hypotonia and frequently cardiac involvement with arrhythmias and / or cardiomyopathy .
a cataract that has material basis in variation in the region 6p12 - q12 .
emanuel syndrome is a constitutional genomic disorder due to the presence of a supernumerary derivative 22 chromosome and characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  characteristic facial dysmorphism  ( micrognathia ,  hooded eyelids ,  upslanting downslanting parebral fissures ,  deep set eyes ,  low hanging columnella and long philtrum )  ,  congenital heart defects and kidney abnormalities .
posterior column ataxia  -  retinitis pigmentosa is characterized by the association of progressive sensory ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa .
any familial isolated arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pkp2 gene .
a hereditary spastic paraplegia that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 10q22 .1 - q24 .1 .
pierson syndrome is characterised by the association of congenital nephrotic syndrome and ocular anomalies with microcoria .
fanconi anemia caused by mutations in the fanci gene ,  encoding fanconi anemia group i protein .
fanconi anemia caused by mutations in the brip1 gene ,  encoding fanconi anemia group j protein .
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 9  ( cln9 - ncl )  is a rare condition that affects the nervous system .
hepatoencephalopathy due to combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency type 1 is a rare ,  inherited mitochondrial disorder due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  metabolic decompensation with recurrent vomiting ,  persistent severe lactic acidosis ,  encephalopathy ,  seizures ,  failure to thrive ,  severe global developmental delay ,  poor eye contact ,  severe muscular hypotonia or axial hypotonia with limb hypertonia ,  hepatomegaly and / or liver dysfunction and / or liver failure ,  leading to fatal outcome in severe cases .
permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus - pancreatic and cerebellar agenesis syndrome is characterized by neonatal diabetes mellitus associated with cerebellar and / or pancreatic agenesis .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy  ( lgmd1g )  is a mild subtype of autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by a typically adult onset of mild ,  progressive ,  proximal weakness of pelvic and shoulder girdle muscles and progressive ,  permanent finger and toes flexion limitation without flexion contractures .
distal arthrogryposis type 4 is an inherited developmental defect syndrome characterized by multiple congenital contractures of limbs ,  without primary neurologic and / or muscle disease that affects limb function ,  and a mild to severe scoliosis .
any auditory neuropathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the diaph3 gene .
aplastic anemia without a known cause .
waardenburg - shah syndrome ,  neurologic variant ,  also referred to as peripheral demyelinating neuropathy ,  central dysmyelinating leukodystrophy ,  waardenburg syndrome ,  and hirschsprung disease  ( pcwh )  ,  is characterized by the association of the features of wss  ( sensorineural hearing loss ,  pigmentary abnormalities and hirschsprung disease )  with neurological features ,  namely ,  neonatal hypotonia ,  intellectual deficit  ( of variable severity )  ,  nystagmus ,  progressive spasticity ,  ataxia and epilepsy .
any posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col8a2 gene .
any posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zeb1 gene .
familial non - autoimmune autosomal dominant hyperthyroidism  ( fnah )  is a rare hyperthyroidism characterized by mild to severe hyperthyroidism ,  presence of goiter ,  absence of features of autoimmunity ,  frequent relapses while on treatment and a positive family history .
an inherited ,  mild ,  non - hemolytic subtype of hereditary stomatocytosis that is associated with a temperature - dependent anomaly in red cell membrane permeability to potassium that leads to high in vitro potassium levels in samples stored below 37c .
autosomal dominant striatal degeneration is a neurologic disorder characterized by variable movement abnormalities due to dysfunction in the striatal part of the basal ganglia .
czech dysplasia ,  metatarsal type is a form of skeletal dysplasia characterised by severe arthropathy beginning in childhood and hypoplasia / dysplasia of the third ,  fourth and / or fifth toes .
branchiogenic deafness syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome ,  described in one family to date ,  characterized by branchial cysts or fistulae ;  ear malformations ;  congenital hearing loss  ( conductive ,  sensorineural ,  and mixed )  ;  internal auditory canal hypoplasia ;  strabismus ;  trismus ;  abnormal fifth fingers ;  vitiliginous lesions ,  short stature ;  and mild learning disability .
the cdg  ( congenital disorders of glycosylation )  syndromes are a group of autosomal recessive disorders affecting glycoprotein synthesis .
a rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the tgfbr1 gene .
a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by the onset in childhood / adolescence  ( ages 2 - 19 )  of progressive spastic paraplegia associated mainly with mild to moderate cognitive impairment and developmental delay ,  cerebellar ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  and peripheral neuropathy .
distal myotilinopathy is a rare ,  late adult - onset myofibrillar myopathy characterized by progressive distal muscle weakness associated with peripheral neuropathy and hyporeflexia .
any bruck syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the plod2 gene .
a griscelli syndrome characterized by isolated silvery gray sheen of the hair and hypopigmentation of the skin that has material basis in mutation in the mlph or myo5a genes .
alpha - n - acetylgalactosaminidase  ( naga )  deficiency type 1 is a very rare and severe type of naga deficiency characterized by infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy .
alpha - n - acetylgalactosaminidase  ( naga )  deficiency type 2 is a very rare mild adult type of naga deficiency with the features of angiokeratoma corporis diffusum and mild sensory neuropathy .
any senior - loken syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the iqcb1 gene .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2a2  ( cmt2a2 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 characterized by the childhood onset of distal weakness and areflexia  ( with earlier and more severe involvement of the lower extremities )  ,  reduced sensory modalities  ( primarily pain and temperature sensation )  ,  foot deformities ,  postural tremor ,  scoliosis and contractures .
any li - fraumeni syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chek2 gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia autosomal recessive 7 ,  also called scar7 ,  is a slowly progressive hereditary form of spinocerebellar ataxia .
any nemaline myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kbtbd13 gene .
any progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial dna deletions in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc25a4 gene .
any nemaline myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tpm3 gene .
any nemaline myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tpm2 gene .
any progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial dna deletions in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the twnk gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc25a22 gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 26  ( sca26 )  is a very rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii  ( adca type iii )  characterized by late - onset and slowly progressive cerebellar signs  ( gait ataxia )  and eye movement abnormalities .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 27  ( sca27 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2k  ( lgmd2k )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by the onset of slowly progressive proximal muscle weakness during childhood  ( with fatigue and difficulty running and climbing stairs )  and developmental delay .
a rare genetic neoplastic syndrome with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance but incomplete penetrance .
charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  type 4h  ( cmt4h )  is a demyelinating cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy
mednik syndrome ,  previously known as erythrokeratodermia variabilis type 3  ( ekv3 )  ,  is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  enteropathy ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  peripheral neuropathy ,  lamellar and erythrodermic ichthyosis ,  and keratodermia  ( mednik stands for mental retardation ,  enteropathy ,  deafness ,  peripheral neuropathy ,  ichtyosis ,  keratodermia )  .
any familial rhabdoid tumor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the smarcb1 gene .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  with severe proximal femoral dysplasia is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by severe ,  early - onset dysplasia of the proximal femurs ,  with almost complete absence of the secondary ossification centers and abnormal development of the femoral necks  ( short and broad with irregular metaphyses )  .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ,  with miniepiphyses is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by strikingly small secondary ossification centers  ( mini - epiphyses )  in all or only some joints ,  resulting in severe bone dysplasia of the proximal femoral heads .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 28 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a childhood or adolescent onset of slowly progressive ,  pure crural muscle spastic paraparesis which manifests with mild lower limb weakness ,  gait difficulties ,  extensor plantar responses ,  and hyperreflexia of lower extremities .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex with circinate migratory erythema  ( ebs - migr )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by belt - like areas of erythema with multiple vesicles and small blisters at the advancing edge of erythema .
colloid cysts of the third ventricle are non - cancerous brain lesions .
a cataract that has material basis in variation in the region 19q13 .
any preeclampsia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the stox1 gene .
a holoprosencephaly that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 14q13 .
a syndrome resulting from the acquired deficiency of cellular immunity caused by the human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  .
3q29 microdeletion syndrome is a recurrent subtelomeric deletion syndrome with variable clinical manifestations including intellectual deficit and dysmorphic features .
mesoaxial synostotic syndactyly  ( mssd )  with phalangeal reduction is a novel and distinct form of non - syndromic syndactyly including complete syndactyly of the 3rd and 4th fingers with synostoses of the corresponding metacarpals and associated single phalanges ,  syndactyly of the 2nd and 3rd toes and 5th finger clinodactyly .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cib2 gene .
fetal valproate syndrome  ( fvs )  ,  is an anticonvulsant drug - related embryofetopathy that can occur when a fetus is exposed to valproic acid  ( vpa )  ,  characterized by distinct facial dysmorphism ,  congenital anomalies and developmental delay  ( especially in language and communication )  .
generalized epilepsy - paroxysmal dyskinesia syndrome is characterised by the association of paroxysmal dyskinesia and generalised epilepsy  ( usually absence or generalised tonic - clonic seizures )  in the same individual or family .
late - onset distal myopathy ,  markesbery - griggs type is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - dystrophic myofibrillar myopathy disorder characterized by late - adult onset of distal and / or proximal limb muscle weakness with initial involvement of posterior lower leg muscles ,  medial gastrocnemius and soleus .
the congenital muscle dystrophies are currently classified according to the genetic defects .
goldberg - shprintzen megacolon syndrome is a multiple malformation syndrome characterized by hirschprung megacolon with microcephaly ,  hypertelorism ,  submucous cleft palate ,  short stature and learning disability .
an autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by joint contractures ,  skeletal abnormalities ,  anterior segment anomalies of the eye and early lethality .
muscle filaminopathy is a rare myofibrillar myopathy characterized by slowly progressive ,  proximal skeletal muscle weakness ,  which is initially more prominent in lower extremities and involves upper extremities with disease progression .
cednik syndrome is a neurocutaneaous syndrome characterized by severe developmental abnormalities of the nervous system and aberrant differentiation of the epidermis .
any selective iga deficiency disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnfrsf13b gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pcdh15 gene .
a rare genetic disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance .
lipomyelomeningocele is a rare neural tube closure defect characterized by a subcutaneous lipoma that extends through a defect in the lumbodorsal fascia ,  vertebral neural arch ,  and dura .
a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by early - onset progressive spastic paraplegia presenting in infancy ,  associated with optic atrophy ,  fixation nystagmus ,  polyneuropathy occurring in late childhood / early adolescence leading to severe motor disability and progressive joint contractures and scoliosis .
any nanophthalmia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mfrp gene .
myopathic mitochondrial dna  ( mtdna )  depletion syndrome is one of the main forms of mtdna depletion syndrome that displays a broad phenotypic spectrum but that is most often characterized by hypotonia ,  proximal muscle weakness ,  facial and bulbar weakness and failure to thrive .
familial scaphocephaly syndrome ,  mcgillivray type is a rare newly described craniosynostosis syndrome characterized by scaphocephaly ,  macrocephaly ,  severe maxillary retrusion ,  and mild intellectual disability .
joubert syndrome with renal defect is a rare subtype of joubert syndrome and related disorders  ( jsrd )  characterized by the neurological features of js associated with renal disease ,  in the absence of retinopathy .
any parietal foramina in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the alx4 gene .
any short qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnh2 gene .
any short qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnq1 gene .
any short qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnj2 gene .
distal monosomy 10q is a chromosomal anomaly involving terminal deletion of the long arm of chromosome 10 and is characterized by facial dysmorphism ,  pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  cardiac and genital anomalies ,  and developmental delay .
majeed syndrome is a rare genetic multisystemic disorder characterized by the triad of chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis ,  congenital dyserythropoietic anemia ,  and variable transient inflammatory dermatosis .
any familial or sporadic hemiplegic migraine in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn1a gene .
an alzheimer's disease that is characterized by an associated with variation in the region 7q36 .
holoprosencephaly associated with mutations in the zic2 gene .
lethal acantholytic epidermolysis bullosa is a suprabasal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by generalized oozing erosions ,  usually in the absence of blisters .
14q22q23 microdeletion syndrome is a rare partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 14 characterized by ocular anomalies  ( anopthalmia / microphthalmia ,  ptosis ,  hypertelorism ,  exophthalmos )  ,  pituitary anomalies  ( pituitary hypoplasia / aplasia with growth hormone deficiency and growth retardation )  and hand / foot anomalies  ( polydactyly ,  short digits ,  pes cavus )  .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ildr1 gene .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 18p11 .32 - p11 .31 .
talo - patello - scaphoid osteolysis is an extremely rare form of primary osteolysis ,  described in two sisters to date ,  characterized by bilateral osteolysis of the tali ,  scaphoids ,  and patellae  ( accompanied by periarticular swelling and pain )  and short fourth metacarpals  ( brachydactyly type e )  ,  in the absence of renal disease .
short stature - delayed bone age due to thyroid hormone metabolism deficiency is a rare ,  genetic congenital hypothyroidism disorder characterized by mild global developmental delay in childhood ,  short stature ,  delayed bone age ,  and abnormal thyroid and selenium levels in serum  ( high total and free t4 concentrations ,  low t3 ,  high reverse t3 ,  normal to high tsh ,  decreased selenium )  .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col11a2 gene .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 29  ( spg29 )  is a complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a spastic paraplegia presenting in adolescence ,  associated with the additional manifestations of sensorial hearing impairment due to auditory neuropathy and persistent vomiting due to a hiatal or paraesophageal hernia .
pro - opiomelanocortin  ( pomc )  deficiency is a form of monogenic obesity resulting in severe early - onset obesity ,  adrenal insufficiency ,  red hair and pale skin .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crybb3 gene .
any celiac disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myo9b gene .
any celiac disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ctla4 gene .
7q11 .23 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 7 characterized by a highly variable phenotype that typically manifests with mild - moderate intellectual delay  ( patients could be in the normal range )  ,  speech disorders  ( particularly of expressive language )  ,  and distinctive craniofacial features  ( brachycephaly ,  broad forehead ,  straight eyebows ,  broad nasal tip ,  short piltrum ,  thin upper lip and facial asymmetry )  .
an alzheimer's disease that is characterized by an associated with variation in the region 9p22 .1 .
acral peeling skin syndrome  ( pss )  is a form of pss characterized by superficial peeling of the skin predominantly affecting the dorsa of the hands and feet .
any maturity - onset diabetes of the young in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cel gene .
any autosomal recessive spondylocostal dysostosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lfng gene .
any familial polycythemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the egln1 gene .
p2y12 defect is a rare hemorrhagic disorder characterized by mild to moderate bleeding diathesis with easy bruising ,  mucosal bleedings ,  and excessive post - operative hemorrhage due to defect of the platelet p2y12 receptor resulting in selective impairment of platelet responses to adenosine diphosphate .
an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the triobp gene ,  encoding trio and f - actin - binding protein .
any open - angle glaucoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wdr36 gene .
combined immunodeficiency due to partial rag1 deficiency is a form of combined t and b cell immunodeficiency  ( cid )  characterized by severe and persistent cytomegalovirus  ( cmv )  infection and autoimmune cytopenia .
a congenital hypothyroidism characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of resistance to thyrotropin that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 15q25 .3 - q26 .1 .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pln gene .
a retinitis pigmentosa that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 1p21 .3 - p13 .3 .
a dilated cardiomyopathy that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 7q22 .3 - q31 .1 .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the topors gene .
aminoacylase 1 deficiency  ( acy1d )  is an inborn error of metabolism marked by a characteristic pattern of urinary n - acetyl amino acid excretion and neurologic symptoms .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 11p13 - p12 .
any noonan syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kras gene .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 2p25 .1 - p24 .3 .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 4q12 - q13 .2 .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 14q11 .2 - q12 .
hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia due to insr deficiency is a very rare autosomal dominant form of familial hyperinsulinism characterized clinically in the single reported family by postprandial hypoglycemia ,  fasting hyperinsulinemia ,  and an elevated serum insulin - to - c peptide ratio ,  and a variable age of onset .
any hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hadh gene .
the primary immunodeficiency with natural - killer cell deficiency and adrenal insufficiency is characterised by a specific natural - killer  ( nk )  cell deficiency and susceptibility to viral diseases .
this syndrome is characterised by sclerosing bone dysplasia ,  ichthyosis vulgaris and premature ovarian failure .
progressive epilepsy - intellectual deficit ,  finnish type  ( also known as northern epilepsy )  is a subtype of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis  ( ncl )  characterized by seizures ,  progressive decline of intellectual capacities and variable loss of vision .
a rare organic aciduria characterized by impaired isoleucine degradation with increased plasma or whole blood c5 acylcarnitine levels  ( typically observed in newborn screening )  and increased urinary excretion of n - methylbutyrylglycine .
any multiple synostoses syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gdf5 gene .
any cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fyco1 gene .
exercise - induced hyperinsulinism  ( eihi )  is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism  ( dhi )  characterized by episodes of hypoglycemia induced by exercise due to an inappropriate lactate and pyruvate sensitivity in pancreatic beta - cells .
any complex cortical dysplasia with other brain malformations in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tubb2b gene .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the cntnap2 gene ,  encoding contactin - associated protein - like 2 .
congenital stromal corneal dystrophy  ( cscd )  is an extremely rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by opaque flaky or feathery clouding of the corneal stroma ,  and moderate to severe visual loss .
any hereditary mixed polyposis syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bmpr1a gene .
pyridoxal phosphate - responsive seizures is a very rare neonatal epileptic encephalopathy disorder characterized clinically by onset of severe seizures within hours of birth that are not responsive to anticonvulsants ,  but are responsive to treatment with pyridoxal phosphate .
any microphthalmia ,  isolated ,  with coloboma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vsx2 gene .
any isolated microphthalmia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vsx2 gene .
finnish upper limb - onset distal myopathy is a rare ,  genetic distal myopathy characterized by slowly progressive distal to proximal limb muscle weakness and atrophy ,  with characteristic early involvement of thenar and hypothenar muscles .
any giant axonal neuropathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dcaf8 gene .
any classic complement early component deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c7 gene .
syndromic microphthalmia ,  type 5 is characterized by the association of a range of ocular anomalies  ( anophthalmia ,  microphthalmia and retinal abnormalities )  with variable developmental delay and central nervous system malformations .
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 10 ( cln10 - ncl )  is arare condition that affects the nervous system .
any progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial dna deletions in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the polg2 gene .
heart - hand syndrome of slovenian type is a rare autosomal dominant form of heart - hand syndrome ,  first described in members of a slovenian family ,  that is characterized by adult onset ,  progressive cardiac conduction disease ,  tachyarrhythmias that can lead to sudden death ,  dilated cardiomyopathy and brachydactyly ,  with the hands less severely affected than the feet .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 12p13 .2 - p11 .23 .
any age - related macular degeneration in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the htra1 gene .
an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the marveld2 gene ,  encoding marvel domain - containing protein 2 .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the adcy1 gene .
a type 1 diabetes mellitus that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 2q24 .3 .
morm syndrome is characterised by the association of intellectual deficit ,  truncal obesity ,  retinal dystrophy and micropenis .
any severe combined immunodeficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cd247 gene .
a rare autosomal dominant inherited disorder of connective tissue caused by mutations in either the tgfbr1 or tgfbr2 gene .
any aicardi - goutieres syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rnaseh2b gene .
any dysequilibrium syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wdr81 gene .
any congenital diaphragmatic hernia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zfpm2 gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep290 gene .
any senior - loken syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep290 gene .
any arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dsg2 gene .
dilated cardiomyopathy with ataxia  ( dcma )  is characterized by severe early onset  ( before the age of three years )  dilated cardiomyopathy  ( dcm )  with conduction defects  ( long qt syndrome )  ,  non - progressive cerebellar ataxia ,  testicular dysgenesis ,  and 3 - methylglutaconic aciduria .
a rare genetic disease characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus ,  and congenital hypothyroidism .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the maf gene .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 5  ( pch5 )  is a very rare severe form of pch with prenatal onset and characterized by fetal onset of clonus or seizures - like activity persisting in infancy and microencephaly leading to early postnatal death .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dcdc2 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pjvk gene .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zfyve27 gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 23  ( sca23 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 28  ( sca28 )  is a very rare subtype of type i autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca type i )  .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 20q13 .2 - q13 .3 .
a rare type of hereditary spastic paraplegia usually characterized by a pure phenotype of proximal weakness of the lower extremities with spastic gait and brisk reflexes ,  with a bimodal age of onset of either childhood or adulthood  (  > 30 years )  .
alcohol intolerance is characterized by immediate unpleasant reactions after drinking alcohol .
kleefstra syndrome  ( ks )  is a genetic disorder characterized by intellectual disability ,  childhood hypotonia ,  severe expressive speech delay and a distinctive facial appearance with a spectrum of additional clinical features .
congenital primary aphakia  ( cpa )  is characterised by an absence of the lens .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lhfpl5 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sema4a gene .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sema4a gene .
the combination of a propensity for venous thrombosis and seizures has been reported in two unrelated kindreds .
any young - onset parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the htra2 gene .
any cold - induced sweating syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clcf1 gene .
any aicardi - goutieres syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rnaseh2c gene .
any aicardi - goutieres syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rnaseh2a gene .
any autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chrna2 gene .
cone dystrophy with supernormal rod response  ( cdsrr )  is an inherited retinopathy ,  with an onset in the first or second decade of life ,  characterized by poor visual acuity  ( due to central scotoma )  ,  photophobia ,  severe dyschromatopsia ,  and occasionally ,  nystagmus .
autosomal spastic paraplegia type 30  ( spg30 )  is a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by either a pure spastic paraplegia phenotype ,  usually presenting in the first or second decade of life ,  with spastic lower extremities ,  usteady spastic gait ,  hyperreflexia and extensor plantar responses ,  or as a complicated phenotype with the additional manifestations of distal wasting ,  saccadic ocular movements ,  mild cerebellar ataxia and mild ,  distal ,  axonal neuropathy .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the snrnp200 gene .
congenital malabsorptive diarrhea due to paucity of enteroendocrine cells is an exceedingly rare genetic gastroenterological disease characterized by severe malabsorptive diarrhea and a lack of intestinal enteroendocrine cells .
any transient neonatal diabetes mellitus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abcc8 gene .
mevalonic aciduria  ( mva )  is a rare ,  very severe form of mevalonate kinase deficiency  ( mkd )  characterized by dysmorphic features ,  failure to thrive ,  psychomotor delay ,  ocular involvement ,  hypotonia ,  progressive ataxia ,  myopathy ,  and recurrent inflammatory episodes .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rax2 gene .
an instance of prosopagnosia  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the s1pr2 gene .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cryba4 gene .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  genevive type is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by severe developmental delay and skeletal dysplasia  ( including short stature ,  premature carpal ossification ,  platyspondyly ,  longitudinal metaphyseal striations ,  and small epiphyses )  ,  as well as moderate to severe intellectual disability and facial dysmorphism ,  including prominent forehead ,  mild synophrys ,  depressed nasal bridge ,  prominent bulbous nasal tip and full lips .
monosomy 17q21 .31  ( 17q21 .31 microdeletion syndrome )  is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by developmental delay ,  childhood hypotonia ,  facial dysmorphism ,  and a friendly / amiable behavior .
a congenital stationary night blindness characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the gnat1 gene on chromosome 3p21 .
any congenital stationary night blindness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rho gene .
any chilblain lupus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trex1 gene .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of thiopurine s - methyltransferase activity .
camptodactyly - tall stature - scoliosis - hearing loss syndrome is characterised by camptodactyly ,  tall stature ,  scoliosis ,  and hearing loss  ( catshl )  .
any primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pde11a gene .
any familial isolated arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dsc2 gene .
any cone dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacna2d4 gene .
agammaglobulinemia - microcephaly - craniosynostosis - severe dermatitis syndrome combines agammaglobulinemia with marked microcephaly ,  significant developmental delay ,  craniosynostosis ,  a severe dermatitis ,  cleft palate ,  narrowing of the choanae ,  and blepharophimosis .
any primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkar1a gene .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 2 is a rare mitochondrial disorder due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by severe intrauterine growth retardation ,  neonatal limb edema and redundant skin on the neck  ( hydrops )  ,  developmental brain defects  ( corpus callosum agenesis ,  ventriculomegaly )  ,  brachydactyly ,  dysmorphic facial features with low set ears ,  severe intractable neonatal lactic acidosis with lethargy ,  hypotonia ,  absent spontaneous movements and fatal outcome .
a female reproductive system disease characterized by rupture of chorioamniotic membranes before 37 weeks of gestation .
combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency type 3 is an extremely rare clinically heterogenous disorder described in about 5 patients to date .
any maturity - onset diabetes of the young in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the klf11 gene .
hypomyelination - congenital cataract is characterized by the onset of cataract either at birth or in the first two months of life ,  delayed psychomotor development by the end of the first year of life and moderate intellectual deficit .
mandibulofacial dysostosis - microcephaly syndrome is a rare genetic multiple malformation disorder characterized by malar and mandibular hypoplasia ,  microcephaly ,  ear malformations with associated conductive hearing loss ,  distinctive facial dysmorphism ,  developmental delay ,  and intellectual disability .
any gaucher disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the psap gene .
any congenital myasthenic syndromes with glycosylation defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gfpt1 gene .
chromosome 16p13 .3deletion syndrome is a chromosome abnormality that can affect many parts of the body .
type a insulin - resistance syndrome belongs to the group of extreme insulin - resistance syndromes  ( which includes leprechaunism ,  the lipodystrophies ,  rabson - mendenhall syndrome and type b insulin resistance syndrome )  and is characterized by the triad of hyperinsulinemia ,  acanthosis nigricans  ( skin lesions associated with insulin resistance )  ,  and signs of hyperandrogenism in females without lipodystrophy and who are not overweight .
herpes simplex virus encephalitis  ( hse )  is caused by the infection of the central nervous system by herpes simplex virus  ( hsv )  that could have a devastating clinical course and a potentially fatal outcome particularly with delay or lack of treatment .
any transient neonatal diabetes mellitus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnj11 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prcd gene .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rd3 gene .
hereditary angioedema type 3  ( hae 3 )  is a form of hereditary angioedema characterized by acute edema in subcutaneous tissues ,  viscera and / or the upper airway .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pitx3 gene .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prok2 gene .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rps24 gene .
palmoplantar keratoderma - xx sex reversal - predisposition to squamous cell carcinoma syndrome is characterised by sex reversal in males with a 46 ,  xx  ( sry - negative )  karyotype ,  palmoplantar hyperkeratosis and a predisposition to squamous cell carcinoma .
any xeroderma pigmentosum in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc3 gene .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 4 is a rare mitochondrial disorder due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by a neonatal onset of severe metabolic acidosis and respiratory distress ,  persistent lactic acidosis with episodes of metabolic crises ,  developmental regression ,  microcephaly ,  abnormal gaze fixation and pursuit ,  axial hypotonia with limb spasticity and reduced spontaneous movements .
any osteogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crtap gene .
any nemaline myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cfl2 gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem67 gene .
any age - related macular degeneration in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cfh gene .
deafness with labyrinthine aplasia ,  microtia ,  and microdontia  ( lamm )  is a genetic transmission deafness syndrome .
brachydactyly - syndactyly ,  zhao type is a recently described syndrome associating a brachydactyly type a4  ( short middle phalanges of the 2nd and 5th fingers and absence of middle phalanges of the 2nd to 5th toes )  and a syndactyly of the 2nd and 3rd toes .
any nephrotic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the plce1 gene .
any noonan syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sos1 gene .
kostmann syndrome is a rare ,  severe ,  congenital neutropenia disorder characterized by a lack of mature neutrophils  ( absolute neutrophil counts less than 500 cells / mm3 )  associated with frequent ,  recurrent bacterial infections  ( e .g .
a rare disorder characterised by a slowly progressive pure cerebellar ataxia associated with dysarthria .
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 4  ( men4 )  is a very rare form of men ,  an inherited cancer syndrome ,  characterized by parathyroid and anterior pituitary tumors ,  possibly associated with adrenal ,  renal ,  and reproductive organ tumors .
any cofs syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc2 gene .
any cofs syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc1 gene .
any cornelia de lange syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the smc3 gene .
dk1 - cdg is characterised by muscular hypotonia and ichthyosis .
cardiomyopathy - hypotonia - lactic acidosis syndrome is characterised by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  muscular hypotonia and the presence of lactic acidosis at birth .
primary immunodeficiency syndrome due to p14 deficiency is characterised by short stature ,  hypopigmentation ,  coarse facies and frequent bronchopulmonary streptococcus pneumoniae infections .
any congenital anomaly of kidney and urinary tract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dstyk gene .
any holoprosencephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ptch1 gene .
any holoprosencephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gli2 gene .
any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the palb2 gene .
body skin hyperlaxity due to vitamin k - dependent coagulation factor deficiency is a very rare genetic skin disease characterized by severe skin laxity affecting the trunk and limbs .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nme8 gene .
any vesicoureteral reflux in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the robo2 gene .
17p11 .2 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 17 ,  typically characterized by hypotonia ,  poor feeding ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay  ( particularly cognitive and language deficits )  ,  mild - moderate intellectual deficit ,  and neuropsychiatric disorders  ( behavioural problems ,  anxiety ,  attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ,  autistic spectrum disorder ,  bipolar disorder )  .
any branchio - oto - renal syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the six5 gene .
pulmonary alveolar proteinosis  ( pap )  is a rare lung disease characterized by the accumulation of a lipoproteinaceous substance in the distal air spaces which positively stains with periodic acid - schiff  ( pas )  .
congenital pulmonary alveolar proteinosis is a very rare primary interstitial lung disease due to pulmonary surfactant accumulation within the alveolar macrophages and alveoli ,  characterized by a variable clinical course ranging from an asymptomatic clinical presentation and spontaneous remission ,  to symptoms such as dyspnea and cough ,  or to severe respiratory failure .
any osteogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the p3h1 gene .
interstitial lung disease due to abca3 deficiency is a rare genetic respiratory disease characterized by a variable clinical outcome ranging from a fatal respiratory distress syndrome in the neonatal period to chronic interstitial lung disease developing in infancy or childhood with chronic cough ,  rapid breathing ,  shortness of breath and recurrent pulmonary infections .
any systemic lupus erythematosus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cr2 gene .
any coronary artery disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cd36 gene .
any coronary artery disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrp6 gene .
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 7  ( cln7 - ncl )  is a rare condition that affects the nervous system .
pitt - hopkins syndrome  ( phs )  is characterized by the association of intellectual deficit ,  characteristic facial dysmorphism and problems of abnormal and irregular breathing .
a syndrome characterized by aged bird - like facies ,  lack of subcutaneous fat ,  dwarfism ,  cachexia and microcephaly .
osteogenesis imperfecta type v is a moderate type of osteogenesis imperfecta  ( oi )  ,  a genetic disorder characterized by increased bone fragility ,  low bone mass and susceptibility to bone fractures with variable severity .
any osteogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fkbp10 gene .
brain - lung - thyroid syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by congenital hypothyroidism  ( ch )  ,  infant respiratory distress syndrome  ( irds )  and benign hereditary chorea  ( bhc )  .
any leprosy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lta gene .
phosphoserine aminotransferase deficiency is an extremely rare form of serine deficiency syndrome characterized clinically in the two reported cases to date by acquired microcephaly ,  psychomotor retardation ,  intractable seizures and hypertonia .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rdx gene .
a dystonia characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of recurrent brief involuntary hyperkinesias triggered by sudden movements that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 16q13 - q22 .1 .
any isolated microphthalmia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rax gene .
any isolated microphthalmia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mfrp gene .
any inherited susceptibility to asthma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the irak3 gene .
autosomal recessive lower motor neuron disease with childhood onset is a rare ,  genetic ,  neuromuscular disease characterized by proximal muscle weakness with an early involvement of foot and hand muscles following normal motor development in early childhood ,  a rapidly progressive disease course leading to generalized areflexic tetraplegia with contractures ,  severe scoliosis ,  hyperlordosis ,  and progressive respiratory insufficiency leading to assisted ventilation .
an alzheimer's disease that is characterized by an associated with variation in the region 8p12 - q22 .
any inflammatory bowel disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atg16l1 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nsun2 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grik2 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tusc3 gene .
deafness - infertility syndrome  ( dis )  is a very rare syndrome associating sensorineural deafness and male infertility .
this disease is characterised by progressive cerebellar ataxia with pyramidal and spinal cord dysfunction ,  associated with distinctive mri anomalies and increased lactate in the abnormal white matter .
acyl - coa dehydrogenase 9  ( acad9 )  deficiency is a rare disorder leading to a deficiency of complex i of the respiratory chain and is characterized by neurological dysfunction ,  hepatic failure and cardiomyopathy .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nr2e3 gene .
any meckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep290 gene .
any juvenile myoclonic epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gabra1 gene .
a dystonia characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of attacks of dystonic or choreathetotic movements precipitated by stress ,  fatigue ,  coffee or alcohol intake or menstruation that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 2q31 .
an alzheimer's disease that is characterized by an associated with variation in the region 1q21 .
an alzheimer's disease that is characterized by an associated with variation in the region 1q25 .
an alzheimer's disease that is characterized by an associated with variations in the region 3q22 - q24 .
the cdg  ( congenital disorders of glycosylation )  syndromes are a group of autosomal recessive disorders affecting glycoprotein synthesis .
cog1 - cdg is an extremely rare form of cdg syndrome characterized clinically in the few cases reported to date by variable signs including microcephaly ,  growth retardation ,  psychomotor retardation and facial dysmorphism .
microphthalmia - brain atrophy  ( moba )  syndrome is a rare genetic neurodegenerative disorder characterized by congenital microphthalmia ,  sunken eyes ,  blindness ,  microcephaly ,  severe intellectual disability ,  progressive spasticity ,  and seizures .
a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by progressive spastic paraplegia  ( presenting in early childhood )  associated with delayed motor development ,  severe intellectual disability and joint contractures .
charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  type 4j  ( cmt4j )  belongs to the genetically heterogeneous group of cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy diseases .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 32  ( spg32 )  is a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a slowly progressive spastic paraplegia  ( with walking difficulties appearing at onset at 6 - 7 years of age )  associated with mild intellectual disability .
any jeune syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ift80 gene .
isobutyryl - coa dehydrogenase deficiency is an inborn error of valine metabolism .
cernunnos - xlf deficiency is a rare form of combined immunodeficiency characterized by microcephaly ,  growth retardation ,  and t and b cell lymphopenia .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 58 is a rare ,  complex subtype of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by variable onset of slowly progressive lower limb spasticity and weakness and prominent cerebellar ataxia ,  associated with gait disturbances ,  dysarthria ,  increased deep tendon reflexes and extensor plantar responses .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2l  ( lgmd2l )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy most often characterized by an adult onset  ( but ranging from 11 to 51 years )  of mainly proximal lower limb weakness ,  with difficulties standing on tiptoes being one of the initial signs .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tbx20 gene .
lethal congenital contracture syndrome type 3 is a rare arthrogryposis syndrome characterized by clinical features identical to lethal congenital contracture syndrome type 2  ( i .e .
brachydactyly type b2 is a rare ,  genetic congenital limb malformation disorder characterized by hypoplasia / aplasia of distal and / or middle phalanges in fingers and toes ii - v  ( frequently severe in fingers / toes iv - v ,  milder in fingers / toes ii - iii )  in association with proximal ,  and occasionally distal ,  symphalangism ,  fusion of carpal / tarsal bones and partial cutaneous syndactyly .
any age - related macular degeneration in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c3 gene .
any usher syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the whrn gene .
any autosomal recessive spastic ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mars2 gene .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bfsp1 gene .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vcl gene .
legius syndrome ,  also known as nf1 - like syndrome ,  is a rare ,  genetic skin pigmentation disorder characterized by multiple cafc )  - au - lait macules with or without axillary or inguinal freckling .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrtomt gene .
the presence of calculi in the gallbladder .
any age - related macular degeneration in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tlr4 gene .
corticosteroid - binding globulin deficiency is a genetic disorder characterized by extreme tiredness  ( fatigue )  ,  particularly after physical exertion ,  and low blood pressure  ( hypotension )  .
any autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clcn7 gene .
any familial atrial fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcne2 gene .
any autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the plekhm1 gene .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the glis2 gene .
any autosomal recessive mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases due to a partial deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tyk2 gene .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 6  ( pch6 )  is a rare form of pontocerebellar hypoplasia characterized clinically at birth by hypotonia ,  clonus ,  epilepsy impaired swallowing and from infancy by progressive microencephaly ,  spasticity and lactic acidosis .
any familial isolated arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the jup gene .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crybb1 gene .
any primary ovarian failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nobox gene .
any noonan syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the raf1 gene .
any noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the raf1 gene .
glycogen storage disease due to muscle and heart glycogen synthase deficiency is characterised by muscle and heart glycogen deficiency .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpgrip1l gene .
any meckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpgrip1l gene .
any waardenburg syndrome type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sox10 gene .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2m  ( lgmd2m )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by an infantile onset of hypotonia ,  axial and proximal lower limb weakness  ( with severe weakness noted after febrile illnesses )  ,  cardiomyopathy and normal or reduced intelligence .
distal renal tubular acidosis  ( drta )  with anemia is a very rare form of distal renal tubular acidosis  ( drta )  characterized by a defect in renal acidification and hereditary hemolytic anemia .
a cataract that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the gene encoding beaded filament structural protein - 2  ( bfsp2 )  on chromosome 3q22 .
lissencephaly  ( lis )  due to tuba1a mutation is a congenital cortical development anomaly due to abnormal neuronal migration involving neocortical and hippocampal lamination ,  corpus callosum ,  cerebellum and brainstem .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fktn gene .
a temporal lobe epilepsy characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of occipitotemporal lobe epilepsy and migraine with visual aura and that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 9q21 - q22 .
any microphthalmia ,  isolated ,  with coloboma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the shh gene .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  cantu type is an extremely rare type of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia described in about 5 patients to date and characterized by clinical signs including short stature ,  peculiar facies with blepharophimosis ,  upward slanted eyes ,  abundant eyebrows and eyelashes ,  coarse voice ,  and short hands and feet  ( brachymetacarpalia ,  brachymetatarsalia and brachyphalangia )  .
any primary hypomagnesemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the egf gene .
this syndrome is characterised by severe hypotonia ,  lactic academia and congenital hyperammonaemia .
encephalopathy due to prosaposin deficiency is a lysosomal storage disease belonging to the group of sphingolipidoses .
any progressive myoclonic epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kctd7 gene .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep290 gene .
an autoinflammatory disease caused by mutations in the nlrp12 gene .
autosomal dominant familial hematuria - retinal arteriolar tortuosity - contractures syndrome is characterised by the association of hematuria  ( without proteinuria )  with extrarenal manifestations: retinal arterial tortuosities responsible for retinal haemorrhages ,  cardiac arrhythmia ,  raynaud phenomena and congenital muscular contractures .
kawasaki disease  ( kd )  is a febrile ,  systemic ,  self - limiting vasculitis affecting children and characterized by inflammation in the medium sized vessels associated with coronary arterial aneurysms  ( caa )  that may be life threatening when untreated .
any brugada syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gpd1l gene .
any familial polycythemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the epas1 gene .
any familial thoracic aortic aneurysm and aortic dissection in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the acta2 gene .
any hereditary elliptocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the epb41 gene .
autosomal recessive bestrophinopathy  ( arb )  is a retinal dystrophy ,  characterized by central visual loss in the first 2 decades of life ,  associated with an absent electrooculogram  ( eog )  light rise and a reduced electroretinogram  ( erg )  .
serkal  ( sex reversion ,  kidneys ,  adrenal and lung dysgenesis )  syndrome is characterised by female to male sex reversal and developmental anomalies of the kidneys ,  adrenal glands and lungs .
temple - baraitser syndrome is a rare developmental anomalies syndrome characterized by severe intellectual disability and distal hypoplasia of digits ,  particularly of thumbs and halluces ,  with nail aplasia or hypoplasia .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cav3 gene .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn4b gene .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the akap9 gene .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of microtia ,  eye coloboma ,  and imperforation of the nasolacrimal duct .
distal 22q11 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 22 with a highly variable phenotype characterized by prematurity ,  pre -  and post - natal growth retardation ,  developmental delay  ( particularly speech )  ,  mild intellectual disability ,  variable cardiac defects ,  and minor skeletal anomalies  ( such as clinodactyly )  .
any familial prostate cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ehbp1 gene .
any brugada syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacna1c gene .
any brugada syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacnb2 gene .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tpm1 gene .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnnc1 gene .
a dilated cardiomyopathy that has material basis in mutation in the tnni3 gene on chromosome 19q13 .
glycogen storage disease due to aldolase a deficiency is an extremely rare glycogen storage disease characterized by hemolytic anemia with or without myopathy or intellectual deficit .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnah11 gene .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ang gene .
episodic ataxia type 7  ( ea7 )  is an exceedingly rare form of hereditary episodic ataxia characterized by ataxia with weakness ,  vertigo ,  and dysarthria without interictal findings .
the proximal 16p11 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by developmental and language delays ,  mild intellectual disability ,  social impairments  ( autism spectrum disorders )  ,  mild variable dysmorphism and predisposition to obesity .
lung fibrosis - immunodeficiency - 46 , xx gonadal dysgenesis syndrome is characterised by immune deficiency ,  gonadal dysgenesis and fatal lung fibrosis .
any familial prostate cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the msmb gene .
camptodactyly syndrome ,  guadalajara type 3 is a rare ,  genetic bone development disorder characterized by hand camptodactyly associated with facial dysmorphism  ( flat face ,  hypertelorism ,  telecanthus ,  symblepharon ,  simplified ears ,  retrognathia )  and neck anomalies  ( short neck with stricking pterygia ,  muscle sclerosis )  .
3q29 microduplications are recently described chromosomal abnormalities with unclear clinical significance .
any catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the casq2 gene .
any childhood absence epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacna1h gene .
an autosomal recessive disease characterized by increased radiosensitivity ,  immunodeficiency ,  mild motor control and learning difficulties ,  facial dysmorphism ,  and short stature that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the rnf168 gene on chromosome 3q29 .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 37 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a childhood -  to adulthood - onset of slowly progressive spastic gait ,  extensor plantar responses ,  brisk tendon reflexes in arms and legs ,  decreased vibration sense at ankles and urinary dysfunction .
any age - related macular degeneration in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cst3 gene .
any inherited susceptibility to asthma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chi3l1 gene .
15q13 .3 microdeletion  ( microdel15q13 .3 )  syndrome is characterized by a wide spectrum of neurodevelopmental disorders with no or subtle dysmorphic features .
any thrombocytopenia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cycs gene .
 ( 3p21 .1 )  .
this syndrome is characterised by childhood - onset progressive ataxia and cerebellar atrophy .
juvenile cataract  -  microcornea  -  renal glucosuria is an extremely rare autosomal dominant association reported in a single swiss family and characterized clinically by juvenile cataract associated with bilateral microcornea ,  and renal glucosuria without other renal tubular defects .
this syndrome is characterised by progressive spastic paraplegia and distal muscle wasting .
dystonia 16  ( dyt16 )  is a very rare and newly discovered movement disorder which is characterized by early - onset progressive limb dystonia ,  laryngeal and oromandibular dystonia ,  and parkinsonism .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tardbp gene .
mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome ,  encephalomyopathic form with methylmalonic aciduria is characterised by the association of a mitochondrial encephalomyopathy and an aminoacidopathy .
any mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rrm2b gene .
ane syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  neuro - endocrino - cutaneous disorder characterized by highly variable degrees of alopecia ,  moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  progressive ,  late - onset motor deterioration and combined anterior pituitary hormone deficiency ,  manifesting with central hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ,  delayed or absent puberty ,  growth hormone deficiency  ( resulting in short stature )  ,  progressive central adrenal insufficiency and a hypoplastic anterior pituitary gland .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prom1 gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the actc1 gene .
oculoauricular syndrome ,  schorderet type is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by various ophthalmic anomalies  ( including congenital microphthalmia ,  microcornea ,  cataract ,  anterior segment dysgenesis ,  ocular coloboma and early onset rod - cone dystrophy )  ,  and abnormal external ears  ( low - set pinna with crumpled helix ,  narrow intertragic incisure ,  abnormal bridge connecting the crus of the helix and the anthelix ,  narrow external acoustic meatus ,  and lobule aplasia )  .
this syndrome is characterised by diarrhoea and vomiting after ingestion of trehalose ,  a disaccharide found mainly in mushrooms .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the csrp3 gene .
paroxysmal exertion - induced dyskinesia  ( ped )  is a form of paroxysmal dyskinesia ,  characterized by painless attacks of dystonia of the extremities triggered by prolonged physical activities .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex with pyloric atresia  ( ebs - pa )  is a basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  characterized by generalized severe blistering with widespread congenital absence of skin and pyloric atresia .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the actn2 gene .
a low malignant potential soft tissue neoplasm of uncertain differentiation .
early infantile epileptic encephalopathy 4  ( eiee4 )  is a form of early infantile epileptic encephalopathy ,  which refers to a group of neurological conditions characterized by severe seizures beginning in infancy .
a retinitis pigmentosa that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 4q32 - q34 .
coats plus syndrome is a pleiotropic multisystem disorder characterized by retinal telangiectasia and exudates ,  intracranial calcification with leukoencephalopathy and brain cysts ,  osteopenia with predisposition to fractures ,  bone marrow suppression ,  gastrointestinal bleeding and portal hypertension .
any familial atrial fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nppa gene .
a small round cell tumor that lacks morphologic ,  immunohistochemical ,  and electron microscopic evidence of neuroectodermal differentiation .
any maturity - onset diabetes of the young in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pax4 gene .
the metabolic condition resulted from uncontrolled diabetes mellitus ,  in which the shift of acid - base status of the body toward the acid side because of loss of base or retention of acids other than carbonic acid is accompanied by the accumulation of ketone bodies in body tissues and fluids .
any colorectal cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the smad7 gene .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hspd1 gene .
a rare malignant soft tissue neoplasm of uncertain differentiation ,  characterized by the presence of chondroblast - like cells in a myxoid stroma and a multinodular growth pattern .
any familial atrial fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcna5 gene .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 3p21 .3
10q22 .3q23 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a rare partial autosomal monosomy characterized by a mild facial dysmorphism variably including macrocephaly ,  broad forehead ,  hypertelorism or hypotelorism ,  deep - set eyes ,  upslanting or downslanting palpebral fissures ,  low - set ears ,  flat nasal bridge ,  smooth philtrum ,  thin upper lip )  ,  cleft palate ,  cerebellar and cardiac malformations ,  psychomotor development delay ,  and behavioral abnormalities  ( attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ,  autism )  .
any inflammatory bowel disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abcb1 gene .
any inflammatory bowel disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the irf5 gene .
crouzon syndrome with acanthosis nigricans  ( can )  is a very rare ,  clinically heterogeneous form of faciocraniostenosis with crouzon - like features and premature synostosis of cranial sutures  ( crouzon disease )  ,  associated with acanthosis nigricans  ( an )  .
any systemic lupus erythematosus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the irf5 gene .
any systemic lupus erythematosus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the stat4 gene .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 10q21 .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 9q32 .
pyogenic bacterial infection due to myd88 deficiency is a primary immunodeficiency characterized by increased susceptibility to pyogenic bacterial infections ,  including invasive pneumococcal ,  invasive staphylococcal and pseudomonas disease .
any inflammatory bowel disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il23r gene .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 5p13 .1 .
any childhood absence epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gabrb3 gene .
a primary ciliary dyskinesia that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 15q24 - q25 .
any inflammatory bowel disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the irgm gene .
any autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nipal4 gene .
any meckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cc2d2a gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cc2d2a gene .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 10q23 - q24 .
progeroid syndrome ,  petty type is a rare premature aging syndrome characterized by pre - and postnatal growth retardation ,  a congenital premature - aged appearance with distinctive craniofacial dysmorphism  ( wide calvaria with large open anterior fontanel and wide metopic suture ,  broad forehead ,  small face ,  micrognathia )  ,  markedly diminished subcutaneous fat ,  cutis laxa and wrinkled skin ,  without delay in psychomotor development .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of bilateral microtia with severe to profound hearing impairment ,  and cleft palate .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the arl13b gene .
birk - barel syndrome is an inherited condition characterized by intellectual disability ,  hypotonia ,  hyperactivity ,  and unusual facial features .
any autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnfrs11a gene .
any primary ovarian failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the figla gene .
2q32q33 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by a variable phenotype involving moderate to severe intellectual deficit ,  significant speech delay ,  persistent feeding difficulties ,  growth retardation and dysmorphic features .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 35 is a rare form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by childhood  ( exceptionally adolescent )  onset of a complex phenotype presenting with lower limb  ( followed by upper limb )  spasticity with hyperreflexia and extensor plantar responses ,  with additional manifestations including progressive dysarthria ,  dystonia ,  mild cognitive decline ,  extrapyramidal features ,  optic atrophy and seizures .
a hereditary spastic paraplegia that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 4p16 - p15 .
autosomal dominant form of hereditary thrombophilia due to congenital protein s deficiency .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zbtb18 gene .
any jervell and lange - nielsen syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcne1 gene .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  spondylocheirodysplastic type is a subtype of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by skeletal dysplasia comprising platyspondyly with moderate short stature ,  osteopenia and widened metaphyses ,  in addition to hyperextensible ,  thin ,  easily bruised skin ,  hypermobility of small joints with tendency to contractures ,  prominent eyes with bluish sclerae ,  wrinkled palms ,  atrophy of the thenar muscle and tapering fingers .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 18p11 .
any cowden disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sdhb gene .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in a mutation on chromosome 2q32 .1 .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chd7 gene .
acute promyelocytic leukemia  ( apl )  is an aggressive form of acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  ,  characterized by arrest of leukocyte differentiation at the promyelocyte stage ,  due to a specific chromosomal translocation t ( 15 ; 17 )  in myeloid cells .
srd5a3 - cdg is a rare ,  non x - linked congenital disorder of gyclosylation due to steroid 5 alpha reductase type 3 deficiency characterized by a highly variable phenotype typically presenting with severe visual impairment ,  variable ocular anomalies  ( such as optic nerve hypoplasia / atrophy ,  iris and optic nerve coloboma ,  congenital cataract ,  glaucoma )  ,  intellectual disability ,  cerebellar abnormalities ,  nystagmus ,  hypotonia ,  ataxia ,  and / or ichthyosiform skin lesions .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 17q21 .2 .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 1q32 .1 .
any sarcoidosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the btnl2 gene .
any non - syndromic pontocerebellar hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tsen2 gene .
any non - syndromic pontocerebellar hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tsen34 gene .
connective tissue disorder due to lysyl hydroxylase - 3 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic disease ,  caused by lack of lysyl hydrohylase 3  ( lh3 )  activity ,  characterized by multiple tissue and organ involvement ,  including skeletal abnormalities  ( club foot ,  progressive scoliosis ,  osteopenia ,  pathologic fractures )  ,  ocular involvement  ( flat retinae ,  myopia ,  cataracts )  and hair ,  nail and skin anomalies  ( coarse ,  abnormally distributed hair ,  skin blistering ,  reduced palmar creases ,  hypoplastic nails )  .
any osteoarthritis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gdf5 gene .
a dystonia characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of progressive dystonia ,  dysphonia ,  dysarthria and neck torticollis that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 20p11 .2 - q13 .12 .
congenital factor xi deficiency is an inherited bleeding disorder characterized by reduced levels and activity of factor xi  ( fxi )  resulting in moderate bleeding symptoms ,  usually occurring after trauma or surgery .
any familial isolated restrictive cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnnt2 gene .
an instance of prekallikrein deficiency that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 4q12 - q13 .1 .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 1q43 - q44 .
any progressive myoclonic epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prickle1 gene .
hypomyelination with atrophy of basal ganglia and cerebellum  ( h - abc )  is characterized by slowly progressive spasticity ,  extrapyramidal movement disorders  ( dystonia ,  choreoathetosis and rigidity )  ,  cerebellar ataxia ,  moderate to severe cognitive deficit ,  and anarthria / dysarthria .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnai2 gene .
this syndrome associates progressive visual loss with scoliosis or kyphoscoliosis and arachnodactyly of the fingers and toes .
any classic complement early component deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c6 gene .
pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1c  ( php1c )  is a rare type of pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php )  characterized by resistance to parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  and other hormones ,  which manifests with hypocalcemia ,  hyperphosphatemia and elevated pth levels ,  a constellation of clinical features collectively termed albright's hereditary osteodystrophy  ( aho )  ,  but normal activity of the stimulatory protein g  ( gs alpha )  .
pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism  ( pseudo - php )  is a disease characterized by a constellation of clinical features collectively termed albright hereditary osteodystrophy  ( aho )  but no evidence of resistance to parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  ,  which is seen in other forms of pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php )  .
a sub - phenotype of wagr that includes obesity ,  and is associated with mutation ( s )  in the bdnf gene .
1q21 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a newly described recurrent deletion syndrome with variable clinical manifestations but without the clinical picture of thrombocytopenia  -  absent radius  ( tar )  syndrome .
chromosome 1q21 .1 duplication syndrome is a rare condition caused by the presence of an extra copy of a small piece of chromosome 1 in the cells of the body .
2p15p16 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay and facial dysmorphism .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnaaf2 gene .
any type 1 diabetes mellitus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hnf1a gene .
a type 1 diabetes mellitus that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 6q25 .
any type 1 diabetes mellitus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccr5 gene .
any congenital generalized lipodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cav1 gene .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rps17 gene .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpl35a gene .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mmp20 gene .
1q41q42 microdeletion syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by a severe developmental delay and / or intellectual disability ,  typical facial dysmorphic features ,  brain anomalies ,  seizures ,  cleft palate ,  clubfeet ,  nail hypoplasia and congenital heart disease .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 42 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by slowly progressive spastic paraplegia of lower extremities with an age of onset ranging from childhood to adulthood and patients presenting with spastic gait ,  increased tendon reflexes in lower limbs ,  extensor plantar response ,  weakness and atrophy of lower limb muscles and ,  in rare cases ,  pes cavus .
any focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the apol1 gene .
any hereditary breast ovarian cancer syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the brca2 gene .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpl5 gene .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpl11 gene .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rps7 gene .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome 20q13 .
any inflammatory bowel disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il10rb gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the idh3b gene .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fig4 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdh15 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kirrel3 gene .
distal monosomy 6p is responsible for a distinct chromosome deletion syndrome with a recognizable clinical picture including intellectual deficit ,  ocular abnormalities ,  hearing loss ,  and facial dysmorphism .
any colorectal cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pold1 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the syngap1 gene .
a type 1 diabetes mellitus that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 4q27 .
any microvascular complications of diabetes ,  susceptibility in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the epo gene .
any microvascular complications of diabetes ,  susceptibility in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ace gene .
distal monosomy 15q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth restriction ,  developmental delay ,  variable degrees of intellectual disability ,  hand and foot anomalies  ( e .g .
any microvascular complications of diabetes ,  susceptibility in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il1rn gene .
hemolytic anemia due to adenylate kinase deficiency is a rare hemolytic anemia due to an erythrocyte nucleotide metabolism disorder characterized by moderate to severe chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia that may require regular blood transfusions and / or splenectomy and may be associated with psychomotor impairment .
an usher syndrome type 1 that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 15q22 - q23 .
any microvascular complications of diabetes ,  susceptibility in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pon1 gene .
any microvascular complications of diabetes ,  susceptibility in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sod2 gene .
any microvascular complications of diabetes ,  susceptibility in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hfe gene .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 12q15 .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 11p14 .2 - q12 .3 .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gjb6 gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gjb3 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gjb6 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rsph4a gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rsph9 gene .
endocrine - cerebro - osteodysplasia  ( eco )  syndrome is characterized by various anomalies of the endocrine ,  cerebral ,  and skeletal systems resulting in neonatal mortality .
any hereditary spherocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc4a1 gene .
episodic ataxia type 6  ( ea6 )  is an exceedingly rare form of hereditary episodic ataxia with varying degrees of ataxia and associated findings including slurred speech ,  headache ,  confusion and hemiplegia .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prom1 gene .
fiskerstrand type peripheral neuropathy is a slowly - progressive refsum - like disorder associating signs of peripheral neuropathy with late - onset hearing loss ,  cataract and pigmentary retinopathy that become evident during the third decade of life .
any hereditary spherocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the epb42 gene .
any autosomal agammaglobulinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cd79b gene .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fgf8 gene .
any autosomal recessive primary microcephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the stil gene .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rdh12 gene .
an autosomal recessive disease that is characterized by mental retardation ,  cataracts ,  coloboma ,  kyphosis ,  and coarse facial features and has material basis in mutation in the srd5a3 gene .
this syndrome is characterized by exocrine pancreatic insufficiency ,  dyserythropoietic anemia ,  and calvarial hyperostosis .
dopa responsive dystonia  ( drd )  due to sepiapterin reductase deficiency  ( srd )  is a very rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by dystonia with diurnal fluctuations ,  axial hypotonia ,  oculogyric crises ,  and delays in motor and cognitive development .
l - arginine:glycine amidinotransferase  ( agat )  deficiency is a very rare type of creatine deficiency sydrome characterized by global developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  and myopathy .
cholestasis -  pigmentary retinopathy -  cleft palate is a syndrome of multiple congenital malformations ,  characterized by an association of cleft lip and palate ,  patchy pigmentary retinopathy  ( cat's paw )  ,  obstructive liver disease  ( cholestasis ,  portal hypertension etc . ) 
guanidinoacetate methyltransferase  ( gamt )  deficiency is a creatine deficiency syndrome characterized by global developmental delay / intellectual disability  ( dd / id )  ,  prominent speech delay ,  autistic / hyperactive behavioral disorders ,  seizures ,  and various types of pyramidal and / or extra - pyramidal manifestations .
porphyria of doss or deficiency of delta - aminolevulinic acid dehydratase  ( dalad )  is an extremely rare form of acute hepatic porphyria characterized by neuro - visceral attacks without cutaneous manifestations .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the adam9 gene .
isolated aglossia and hypoglossia are terms covering the spectrum from partial to total absence of the tongue .
sesame syndrome is characterized by seizures ,  sensorineural deafness ,  ataxia ,  intellectual deficit ,  and electrolyte imbalance  ( hypokalemia ,  metabolic alkalosis ,  and hypomagnesemia )  .
an isolated growth hormone deficiency characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of low but detectable levels of gh ,  short stature ,  significantly retarded bone age ,  and a positive response and immunologic tolerance to growth hormone therapy that has material basis in mutation in the gh1 or ghrhr genes on chromosomes 17q23 .3 and 7p14 .3 ,  respectively .
a form of combined immunodeficiency due to calcium release activated ca2 +   ( crac )  channel dysfunction characterized by recurrent infections ,  congenital myopathy ,  ectodermal dysplasia and anhydrosis .
aform of combined immunodeficiency due to calcium release activated ca2 +  ( crac )  channel dysfunction characterized by recurrent infections ,  autoimmunity ,  congenital myopathy and ectodermal dysplasia .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 8p22 - p21 .3 .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the actc1 gene .
an inflammatory bowel disease that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 13q13 .3
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  aggrecan type is a new form of skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe short stature ,  facial dysmorphism and characteristic radiographic findings .
any brugada syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn1b gene .
leukocyte adhesion deficiency type iii  ( lad - iii )  is a form of lad characterized by both severe bacterial infections and a severe bleeding disorder .
a hypotrichosis that has material basis in a mutation on chromosome 1p21 .1 - q21 .3 .
an autoinflammatory disease caused by mutations in the il1rn gene ,  which encodes the il1 receptor antagonist .
chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension  ( cteph )  is characterized by the persistence of thromboemboli in the form of organized tissue obstructing the pulmonary arteries .
6q25 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism and hearing loss .
subepithelial mucinous corneal dystrophy  ( smcd )  is a very rare form of superficial corneal dystrophy characterized by frequent recurrent corneal erosions in the first decade of life ,  with progressive loss of vision .
posterior amorphous corneal dystrophy  ( pacd )  is a very rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by irregular amorphous sheet - like opacities in the posterior corneal stroma and in descemet membrane and mildly impaired vision .
adenosine monophosphate  ( amp )  deaminase deficiency is a metabolic disorder for which two forms have been described .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dsg2 gene .
any generalised epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the casr gene .
any spastic quadriplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kank1 gene .
any striate palmoplantar keratoderma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dsp gene .
orofaciodigital syndrome type 11 is an extremely rare ,  sporadic form of orofaciodigital syndrome  ( ofds )  with only a few reported cases ,  and characterized by facial  ( blepharophimosis ,  bulbous nasal tip ,  broad nasal bridge ,  downslanting palpebral fissures and low set ears )  and skeletal  ( post - axial polydactyly and fusion of vertebrae )  malformations along with severe intellectual disability ,  deafness and congenital heart defects .
clove syndrome is characterized by congenital lipomatous overgrowth ,  progressive ,  complex and mixed truncal vascular malformations ,  and epidermal nevi .
any 3 - m syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the obsl1 gene .
muscle beta - enolase deficiency is a glycolysis disorder reported in one patient to date and characterized clinically by exercise intolerance and myalgia due to severe enolase deficiency in muscle .
a condition that affects how the body breaks down sugar to use as energy in muscle cells .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap4m1 gene .
dpm3 - cdg is an extremely rare form of cdg syndrome characterized clinically in the single reported case by muscle weakness ,  waddling gait and dilated cardiomyopathy .
autosomal recessive cutis laxa type 2b is a rare ,  hereditary ,  developmental defect with connective tissue involvement characterized by cutis laxa of variable severity ,  in utero growth restriction ,  congenital hip dislocation and joint hyperlaxity ,  wrinkling of the skin ,  in particular the dorsum of hands and feet ,  and progeroid facial features .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the klhl7 gene .
microcephaly - facio - cardio - skeletal syndrome ,  hadziselimovic type is a rare syndrome with cardiac malformations ,  characterized by prenatal - onset growth retardation  ( low birth weight and short stature )  ,  hypotonia ,  developmental delay and intellectual disability associated with microcephaly and craniofacial  ( low anterior hairline ,  hypotelorism ,  thick lips with carp - shaped mouth ,  high - arched palate ,  low - set ears )  ,  cardiac  ( conotruncal heart malformations such as tetralogy of fallot )  and skeletal  ( hypoplastic thumbs and first metacarpals )  abnormalities .
epileptic encephalopathy with global cerebral demyelination is a rare mitochondrial substrate carrier disorder characterized by severe muscular hypotonia ,  seizures  ( with or without episodic apnea )  beginning in the first year of life ,  and arrested psychomotor development  ( affecting mainly motor skills )  .
cystic leukoencephalopathy without megalencephaly is characterised by non - progressive leukoencephalopathy ,  bilateral cysts in the anterior part of the temporal lobe ,  cerebral white matter anomalies and severe psychomotor impairment .
any aicardi - goutieres syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the samhd1 gene .
adult - onset dystonia - parkinsonism is a rare neurodegenerative disease usually presenting before the age of 30 and which is characterized by dystonia ,  l - dopa - responsive parkinsonism ,  pyramidal signs and rapid cognitive decline .
selcen type muscular dystrophy is characterized by progressive limb and axial muscle weakness associated with cardiomyopathy and severe respiratory insufficiency during adolescence .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the snta1 gene .
any ventricular fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dpp6 gene .
any multiple synostoses syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fgf9 gene .
any primary ovarian failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nr5a1 gene .
any cataract  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the foxe3 gene .
any autosomal dominant emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the syne1 gene .
any autosomal dominant emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the syne2 gene .
any nonepidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt16 gene .
a rare neoplastic syndrome characterized by the presence of unilateral lipomas of the cranium ,  face and neck ,  and ipsilateral cerebral malformations .
a type 1 diabetes mellitus that has material basis in mutation of the locus at chromosome 10q23 .31 .
a condition of decreased or absent presence or activity of il2 - inducible t - cell kinase .
any neuroblastoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the alk gene .
any bronchiectasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scnn1a gene .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in a mutation on chromosome 15q13 .
the 19q13 .11 microdeletion is characterized by several major features including pre and postnatal growth retardation ,  slender habitus ,  severe postnatal feeding difficulties ,  microcephaly ,  intellectual deficit with speech disturbance ,  hypospadias and ectodermal dysplasia presented by scalp aplasia ,  thin and sparse hair ,  eyebrows and eyelashes ,  thin and dry skin and dysplasic nails .
a liver phk deficiency caused by variants in the phkg2 gene
any malignant glioma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pten gene .
any malignant glioma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the brca2 gene .
a condition in which a person loses the ability to hear due to exposure to high intensity sound .
congenital hypopituitarism is characterized by multiple pituitary hormone deficiency ,  including somatotroph ,  thyrotroph ,  lactotroph ,  corticotroph or gonadotroph deficiencies ,  due to mutations of pituitary transcription factors involved in pituitary ontogenesis .
any juvenile myoclonic epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gabrd gene .
an atopic dermatitis associated with variation in the region 11q13 .5 .
acute infantile liver failure due to mtdna - encoded proteins synthesis defect is a very rare mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency described in fewer than 10 infants ,  primarily of middle eastern descent ,  and characterized clinically by transient but life - threatening liver failure with elevated liver enzymes ,  jaundice ,  vomiting ,  coagulopathy ,  hyperbilirubinemia ,  and lactic acidemia .
any bronchiectasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scnn1g gene .
any metaphyseal anadysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mmp9 gene .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that is characterized postlingual onset in the second decade of life with flat progressive hearing loss and has material basis in mutation in the mirn96 gene on chromosome 7q32 .
rin2 syndrome ,  formerly known as macrocephaly ,  alopecia ,  cutis laxa and scoliosis  ( macs )  syndrome ,  is a very rare inherited connective tissue disorder characterized by macrocephaly ,  sparse scalp hair ,  soft - redundant and hyperextensible skin ,  joint hypermobility ,  and scoliosis .
any progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial dna deletions in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rrm2b gene .
nijmegen breakage syndrome - like disorder is a rare ,  genetic multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by growth retardation ,  short stature ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( i .e .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the loxhd1 gene .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tll1 gene .
clapo syndrome is a newly described syndrome consisting of capillary malformation of the lower lip  ( c )  ,  lymphatic malformation of the face and neck  ( l )  ,  asymmetry of face and limbs  ( a )  and partial or generalized overgrowth  ( o )  .
an asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the dync2h1 gene on chromosome 11q22 .
familial juvenile hyperuricemic nephropathy type 2 is a rare autosomal dominantly inherited disease of childhood characterized by hypoproliferative anemia ,  hyperuricemia and slowly progressing kidney failure due to dysregulation of the renin - angiotensin system  ( ras )  .
any cone dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pde6c gene .
any isolated microphthalmia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gdf6 gene .
autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease caused by a mutation in pkd2 .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 36  ( spg36 )  is a complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia ,  characterized by an onset in childhood or adulthood of progressive spastic paraplegia  ( with spastic gait ,  spasticity ,  lower limb weakness ,  pes cavus and urinary urgency )  associated with the additional manifestation of peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy .
any open - angle glaucoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ntf4 gene .
any genetic hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the stxbp2 gene .
hereditary hypotrichosis with recurrent skin vesicles is a very rare inherited hair loss disorder described in a family and characterized by sparse ,  fragile or absent hair on the scalp ,  eyebrows ,  eyelashes ,  axillae and rest of the body ,  associated with vesicle formation on various parts of the scalp and body which regularly burst and release watery fluid .
any central areolar choroidal dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prph2 gene .
any autosomal dominant severe congenital neutropenia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gfi1 gene .
any familial chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clec7a gene .
any autosomal dominant macrothrombocytopenia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tubb1 gene .
any hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the retreg1 gene .
a rare disorder characterized by the presence of low levels of antithrombin iii which prohibits the formation of blood clots .
any brugada syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcne3 gene .
any brugada syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn3b gene .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nexn gene .
any brugada syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hcn4 gene .
infantile dystonia - parkinsonism  ( ipd )  is an extremely rare inherited neurological syndrome that presents in early infancy with hypokinetic parkinsonism and dystonia and that can be fatal .
any inflammatory bowel disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il10ra gene .
an autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the pomt2 gene .
an autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the large gene .
an autosomal recessive inherited congenital muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the pomt2 gene .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2o  ( lgmd2o )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by an onset in childhood or adolescence of rapidly progressive proximal limb muscle weakness  ( particularly affecting the neck ,  hip girdle ,  and shoulder abductors )  ,  hypertrophy in the calves and quadriceps ,  ankle contractures ,  and myopia .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2n  ( lgmd2n )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by proximal weakness  ( manifesting as slowness in running )  presenting in infancy ,  along with calf hypertrophy ,  mild lordosis ,  scapular winging and normal intelligence or mild intellectual disability .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the xpnpep3 gene .
beta - ureidopropionase deficiency is a very rare pyrimidine metabolism disorder described in fewer than 10 patients to date with an extremely wide clinical picture ranging from asymptomatic cases to neurological  ( epilepsy ,  autism )  and developmental disorders  ( urogenital ,  colorectal )  .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 45 is a rare ,  pure or complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by onset in infancy of progressive lower limb spasticity ,  abnormal gait ,  increased deep tendon reflexes and extensor plantar responses ,  that may be associated with intellectual disability .
gamma - aminobutyric acid transaminase  ( gaba - t )  deficiency is an extremely rare disorder of gaba metabolism characterized by a severe neonatal - infantile epileptic encephalopathy  ( manifesting with symptoms such as seizures ,  hypotonia ,  hyperreflexia and developmental delay )  and growth acceleration .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rbm20 gene .
5p13 microduplication syndrome is a rare partial autosomal trisomy / tetrasomy characterized by global developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  autistic behavior ,  muscular hypotonia ,  macrocephaly and facial dysmorphism  ( frontal bossing ,  short palpebral fissures ,  low set ,  dysplastic ears ,  short or shallow philtrum ,  high arched or narrow palate ,  micrognathia )  .
a autosomal recessive cutis laxa type i that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the ltbp4 gene on chromosome 19q13
purine nucleoside phosphorylase  ( pnp )  deficiency is a disorder of purine metabolism characterized by progressive immunodeficiency leading to recurrent and opportunistic infections ,  autoimmunity and malignancy as well as neurologic manifestations .
polymicrogyria with optic nerve hypoplasia is a rare genetic syndrome with central nervous system malformations characterized by severe developmental delay ,  neonatal hypotonia ,  seizures ,  optic nerve hypoplasia and distinct central nervous system malformations including extensive bilateral polymicrogyria ,  dysplastic or absent corpus callosum and malformed brainstem with loss of demarcation of the pontomedullary junction .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trappc9 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnaaf1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the best1 gene .
congenital muscular dystrophy with integrin alpha - 7 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  congenital muscular dystrophy due to extracellular matrix protein anomaly characterized by early motor development delay and muscle weakness with mild elevation of serum creatine kinase ,  that may be followed by progressive disease course with predominantly proximal muscle weakness and atrophy ,  motor development regress ,  scoliosis and respiratory insufficiency .
congenital muscular dystrophy due to lmna mutation is a rare congenital muscular dystrophy characterized by prominent axial hypotonia ,  dropped head syndrome ,  predominantly proximal muscle weakness in upper limbs / distal in lower limbs  ( with absent ,  poor or lost motor development )  ,  joint contractures  ( initially distal ,  later proximal )  ,  spine rigidity ,  and early respiratory insufficiency ,  in the presence of moderately elevated serum creatine kinase .
a very rare ,  complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a late - onset ,  slowly progressive spastic paraplegia associated with mild ataxia and dysarthria ,  upper extremity involvement  ( i .e .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wdr72 gene .
17p13 .3 microduplication syndrome is characterized by variable psychomotor delay and dysmorphic features .
any congenital stationary night blindness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trpm1 gene .
congenital tufting enteropathy is a rare congenital enteropathy presenting with early - onset severe and intractable diarrhea that leads to irreversible intestinal failure .
any leprosy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tlr1 gene .
any noonan syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nras gene .
any dysequilibrium syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ca8 gene .
a disorder characterized by repetitive pulling out of one's hair resulting in noticeable hair loss ;  the individual experiences a rising subjective sense of tension before pulling out the hair and a sense of gratification or relief when pulling out the hair .
any focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the inf2 gene .
any thyrotoxic periodic paralysis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnj18 gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnnc1 gene .
any hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the epcam gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myh6 gene .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myh6 gene .
tuberous sclerosis mapped to chromosome 16p13 .3  ( tsc2 gene )  .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vcl gene .
a subtype of waardenburg syndrome type 4  ( waardenburg - shah syndrome )  caused by mutations in edn3 .
a subtype of waardenburg syndrome type 4  ( waardenburg - shah syndrome )  caused by mutations in sox10 .
any fuchs' endothelial dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tcf4 gene .
any fuchs' endothelial dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc4a11 gene .
any fuchs' endothelial dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zeb1 gene .
a term referring to fatty replacement of the hepatic parenchyma which is not related to alcohol use .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grxcr1 gene .
a dilated cardiomyopathy that has material basis in mutation in the tnni3 gene on chromosome 19q13 .42 .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2n  ( cmt2n )  is a mild form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy ,  characterized by distal legs sensory loss and weakness that can be asymmetric .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tprn gene .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rps10 gene .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rps26 gene .
any exudative vitreoretinopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tspan12 gene .
any autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the enpp1 gene .
any hemochromatosis type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hamp gene .
any spondylodysplastic dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pam16 gene .
any familial rhabdoid tumor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the smarca4 gene .
any congenital generalized lipodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cavin1 gene .
combined immunodeficiency with faciooculoskeletal anomalies is an extremely rare combined immunodeficiency disorder characterized by primary immunodeficiency manifesting with repeated bacterial ,  viral and fungal infections ,  in association with neurological manifestations  ( hypotonia ,  cerebellar ataxia ,  myoclonic seizures )  ,  developmental delay ,  optic atrophy ,  facial dysmorphism  ( high forehead ,  hypoplastic supraorbital ridges ,  palpebral edema ,  hypertelorism ,  flat nasal bridge ,  broad nasal root and tip ,  anteverted nares ,  thin lower lip overlapped by upper lip ,  square chin )  and skeletal anomalies  ( short metacarpals / metatarsals with cone - shaped epiphyses ,  osteopenia )  .
congenital plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1  ( pai - 1 )  deficiency is a rare genetic bleeding disorder characterized by premature lysis of hemostatic clots and a moderate bleeding tendency .
hot water reflex epilepsy is a rare neurologic disease characterized by the onset of generalized or focal seizures following immersion of the head in hot water ,  or with hot water being poured over the head .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrat gene .
mseleni joint disease  ( mjd )  is a rare and crippling chondrodysplasia ,  reported mainly in the maputaland region in northern kwazulu natal ,  south africa ,  characterized by a bilateral and uniform arthropathy of the joints that primarily and most severely affects the hip but that can also affect many other joints  ( i .e .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia ,  handigodu type is a rare ,  genetic ,  primary bone dysplasia characterized by three distinct phenotypes ,  namely: 1 )  patients of average height with painful ,  osteoarthritic changes of the hip joints and no spinal abnormalities ,  2 )  short - statured patients with predominantly truncal shortening ,  arm span exceeding height ,  dyspalstic changes of hips and varying degrees of platyspondyly ,  and 3 )  patients with dwarfism ,  various associated skeletal abnormalities  ( particularly of the knees and hands )  and severe epiphyseal dysplasia  ( of hips ,  knees ,  hands ,  wrists )  associated with significant platyspondyly .
any familial pancreatic carcinoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the brca2 gene .
any familial pancreatic carcinoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the palb2 gene .
17q23 .1q23 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  microcephaly ,  short stature ,  heart defects and limb abnormalities .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 41 is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by onset in adolescence or early adulthood of slowly progressive spastic paraplegia ,  proximal muscle weakness of the lower extremities and small hand muscles ,  hyperreflexia ,  spastic gait and mild urinary compromise .
any maturity - onset diabetes of the young in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ins gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 30  ( sca30 )  is a very rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii  ( adca type iii )  characterized by a slowly progressive and relatively pure ataxia .
any maturity - onset diabetes of the young in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the blk gene .
any neuronopathy ,  distal hereditary motor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hspb3 gene .
any brachydactyly type e in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pthlh gene .
any fanconi syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc34a1 gene .
any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rad51c gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ptprq gene .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 17p12 - q11 .2 .
a syndrome mainly characterized by severe growth retardation and microcephaly .
any hereditary breast ovarian cancer syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rad51c gene .
any arthrogryposis - renal dysfunction - cholestasis syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vipas39 gene .
15q24 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized cytogenetically by a 1 .7 - 6 .1 mb deletion in chromosome 15q24 and clinically by pre -  and post - natal growth retardation ,  intellectual disability ,  distinct facial features ,  and genital ,  skeletal ,  and digital anomalies .
any oguchi disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grk1 gene .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the actc1 gene .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myh7 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pcare gene .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the optn gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mef2c gene .
distal 16p11 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 16 with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by developmental delay ,  mild intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder .
frontonasal dysplasia with alopecia and genital anomaly is a new phenotype of frontonasal dysplasia associated with total alopecia and hypogonadism .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the serpinb6 gene .
14q11 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  hypotonia and facial dysmorphism .
16p13 .3 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from a partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 16 and manifesting with a variable phenotype which is mostly characterized by: mild to moderate intellectual deficit and developmental delay  ( particularly speech )  ,  normal growth ,  short ,  proximally implanted thumbs and other hand and feet malformations  ( such as camptodactyly ,  syndactyly ,  club feet )  ,  mild arthrogryposis and characteristic facies  ( upslanting ,  narrow palpebral fissures ,  hypertelorism ,  mid face hypoplasia ,  bulbous nasal tip and low set ears )  .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ttc8 gene .
glucosephosphate isomerase  ( gpi )  deficiency is an erythroenzymopathy characterized by chronic nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia .
reynolds syndrome  ( rs )  is an autoimmune disorder characterized by the association of primary biliary cirrhosis  ( pbc )  with limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis  ( lcssc )  .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sptan1 gene .
any hereditary lymphedema in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gjc2 gene .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnj5 gene .
a liposarcoma characterized by the presence of round non - lipogenic primitive mesenchymal cells and small signet ring lipoblasts within a myxoid stoma with a branching vascular pattern .
cog4 - cdg is an extremely rare form of cdg syndrome characterized clinically in the single reported case to date by seizures ,  some dysmorphic features ,  axial hyponia ,  slight peripheral hypertonia and hyperreflexia .
alpha - 1 - antitrypsin deficiency is a hereditary disease that develops in adulthood and is characterized by chronic liver disorders  ( cirrhosis )  ,  respiratory disorders  ( emphysema )  ,  and rarely panniculitis .
any common variable immunodeficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ms4a1 gene .
any common variable immunodeficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cd81 gene .
any autosomal agammaglobulinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the igll1 gene .
any autosomal agammaglobulinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cd79a gene .
any autosomal agammaglobulinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the blnk gene .
any autosomal agammaglobulinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrrc8a gene .
glycogen storage disease type 15 is an extremely rare genetic glycogen storage disease reported in one patient to date .
the 4q21 microdeletion syndrome is a newly described syndrome associated with facial dysmorphism ,  progressive growth restriction ,  severe intellectual deficit and absent or severely delayed speech .
any isolated microphthalmia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prss56 gene .
an atopic dermatitis associated with variation in the region 4q22 .1 .
an atopic dermatitis associated with variation in the region 3p24 .
hematologic neoplasms characterized by the rearrangement of the fgfr1 gene ,  resulting in translocations with an 8p11 breakpoint .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 1h  ( lgmd1h )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by slowly progressive proximal muscular weakness initially affecting the lower limbs  ( and later involving the upper limbs )  ,  hypotrophy of upper and lower limb - girdle muscles ,  hyporeflexia ,  calf hypertrophy ,  and increased serum creatine kinase .
the newly described 17q21 .31 microduplication syndrome is associated with a broad clinical spectrum ,  of which behavioral disorders and poor social interaction seem to be the most consistent .
greatly exaggerated width of the mouth ,  resulting from failure of union of the maxillary and mandibular processes ,  with extension of the oral orifice toward the ear .
aromatase deficiency disrupts the synthesis of estradiol ,  resulting in hirsutism of mothers during gestation of an affected child ;  pseudohermaphroditism and virilization in women ;  and tall stature ,  osteoporosis and obesity in men .
a nephronophthisis that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the tmem67 gene on chromosome 8q22 .1 .
any autoimmune disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the siae gene .
type 2 von willebrand disease  ( type 2 vwd )  is a form of vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with a qualitative deficiency and functional anomalies of the willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that is characterized by postlingual onset in the fourth decade of life with high frequency progressive hearing loss and has material basis in a 269 - kb duplication of chromosome 9q21 .11 involving the tjp2 and fam189a2 genes .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 7 is a rare mitochondrial disease due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by a variable phenotype that includes onset in infancy or early childhood of failure to thrive and psychomotor regression  ( after initial normal development )  ,  as well as ocular manifestations  ( such as ptosis ,  nystagmus ,  optic atrophy ,  ophthalmoplegia and reduced vision )  .
any mitochondrial myopathy and sideroblastic anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the yars2 gene .
cbl - related disorder is a genetic condition caused by pathogenic variants in the cbl ubiquitin ligase gene ,   ( cbl ;  hgnc:1541 )  .
congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to cytochrome p450 oxidoreductase deficiency is a unique form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  characterized by glucocorticoid deficiency ,  severe sexual ambiguity in both sexes and skeletal  ( especially craniofacial )  malformations .
ectodermal dysplasia - syndactyly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by sparse to absent scalp hair ,  eyebrows ,  and eyelashes  ( with pili torti when present )  ,  widely spaced ,  conical - shaped teeth with peg - shaped ,  conical crowns and enamel hypoplasia and palmoplantar hyperkeratosis ,  associated with partial cutaneous syndactyly in hands and feet .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the arl6 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the impg2 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pde6g gene .
occult macular dystrophy is a rare ,  genetic retinal dystrophy disease characterized by bilateral progressive decline of visual acuity ,  due to retinal dysfunction confined only to the macula ,  associated with normal fundus and fluorescein angiograms and severly attenuated focal macular and multifocal electroretinograms .
torsade - de - pointes  ( tdp )  syndrome with short coupling interval is a very rare variant of torsade de pointes ,  a polymorphic ventricular tachycardia ,  which is characterized by a short coupling interval of the first tdp beat on electrocardiogram in the absence of any structural heart disease .
16p11 .2 - p12 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay and facial dysmorphism .
any cranioectodermal dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wdr35 gene .
cog5 - cdg is an extremely rare form of cdg syndrome characterized clinically in the single reported case to date by moderate mental retardation with slow and inarticulate speech ,  truncal ataxia ,  and mild hypotonia .
any senior - loken syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sdccag8 gene .
primary hyperoxaluria type 3  ( ph3 )  is a disorder of glyoxylate metabolism that can be asymptomatic or characterized by oxalate nephrolithiasis .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the znf513 gene .
17q23 .1 - q23 .2 microduplication is a newly described cause of familial isolated clubfoot .
any combined deficiency of factor v and factor viii in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mcfd2 gene .
an often asymptomatic developmental abnormality of the cervical spine .
fetal encasement syndrome is a rare ,  lethal developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by severe fetal malformations ,  including craniofacial dysmorphism  ( abnormal cyst in the cranial region ,  hypoplastic eyeballs ,  two orifices in the nasal region separated by a nasal septum ,  abnormal orifice replacing the mouth )  ,  omphalocele and immotile ,  hypoplastic limbs encased under an abnormal ,  transparent ,  membrane - like skin .
19p13 .13 microdeletion syndrome is a rare partial autosomal monosomy characterized by global developmental delay ,  moderate intellectual disability ,  macrocephaly ,  overgrowth ,  hypotonia ,  and facial dysmorphism  ( frontal bossing ,  down - slanting palpebral fissures )  .
a hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 1 that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the sptlc2 gene on chromosome 14q24 .
autosomal recessive intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type b is an extremely rare subtype of autosomal recessive intermediate charcot - marie - tooth  ( cmt )  disease characterized by a cmt neuropathy associated with developmental delay ,  self - abusive behavior ,  dysmorphic features and vestibular schwannoma .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sdha gene .
any young - onset parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the uchl1 gene .
methylmalonic aciduria due to transcobalamin receptor defect is a rare metabolite absorption and transport disorder characterized by a moderate increase of methylmalonic acid  ( mma )  in the blood and urine due to decreased cellular uptake of cobalamin resulting from decreased transcobalamin receptor function .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 48  ( spg48 )  is a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia usually characterized by a pure phenotype of a slowly progressive spastic paraplegia associated with urinary incontinence with an onset in mid -  to late - adulthood .
c1q deficiency is a rare disorder associated with recurrent skin lesions ,  chronic infections ,  systemic lupus erythematosus  ( sle )  or sle - like diseases .
any migraine disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnk18 gene .
any d - 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the idh2 gene .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdhr1 gene .
 ( 13q14 .3 )  .
infantile cerebral and cerebellar atrophy with postnatal progressive microcephaly is a rare ,  central nervous system malformation syndrome characterized by progressive microcephaly with profound motor delay and intellectual disability ,  associated with hypertonia ,  spasticity ,  clonus ,  and seizures ,  with brain imaging revealing severe cerebral and cerebellar atrophy ,  and poor myelination .
intellectual disability - severe speech delay - mild dysmorphism syndrome ,  also known as intellectual disability with language impairment and with or without autistic features ,  is adisorder characterized by global developmental delay with moderate to severe speech delay thataffects expressive speech .
any autosomal recessive spastic ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mtpap gene .
congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type iv  ( cda iv )  is a newly discovered form of cda characterized by ineffective erythropoiesis and hemolysis that leads to severe anemia at birth .
any vesicoureteral reflux in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sox17 gene .
17q11 microdeletion syndrome is a rare severe form of neurofibromatosis type 1  ( nf1 )  characterized by mild facial dysmorphism ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  increased risk of malignancies ,  and a large number of neurofibromas .
any seckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cenpj gene .
familial hyperaldosteronism type iii  ( fh - iii )  is a rare heritable form of primary aldosteronism  ( pa )  that is characterized by early - onset severe hypertension ,  non glucocorticoid - remediable hyperaldosteronism ,  overproduction of 18 - oxocortisol and 18 - hydroxycortisol ,  and profound hypokalemia .
autosomal recessive brachyolmia ,  maroteaux type is a relatively mild form of brachyolmia ,  a group of rare genetic skeletal disorders ,  characterized by short trunk / short stature ,  generalized platyspondyly and rounding of vertebral bodies .
congenital factor ii deficiency is an inherited bleeding disorder due to reduced activity of factor ii  ( fii ,  prothrombin )  and characterized by mucocutaneous bleeding symptoms .
any rubinstein - taybi syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ep300 gene .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 9p23 - p21 .2 .
any autosomal recessive spondylocostal dysostosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hes7 gene .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the kcnh2 gene ,  encoding potassium voltage - gated channel subfamily h member 2 .
mammary - digital - nail syndrome is a syndromic limb malformation characterized by congenital onychodystrophy / anonychia ,  brachydactyly of the fifth finger ,  digitalization of the thumbs ,  with absence or hypoplasia of the distal phalanges of the hands and feet in association with juvenile hypertrophy of the breast with gigantomastia in peripubertal females .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnni3 gene .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcne2 gene .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the psen1 gene .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcne1 gene .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the psen2 gene .
any isolated klippel - feil syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gdf3 gene .
any isolated microphthalmia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gdf3 gene .
any orofacial cleft in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sumo1 gene .
any noonan syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the braf gene .
any noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the braf gene .
a hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 1 characterized by adult onset of a distal axonal sensory neuropathy that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the atl1 gene on chromosome 14q .
progressive polyneuropathy with bilateral striatal necrosis is a rare ,  genetic disorder of thiamine metabolism and transport characterized by the childhood - onset of recurrent episodes of flaccid paralysis and encephalopathy ,  associated with bilateral striatal necrosis and chronic progressive axonal polyneuropathy with proximal and distal muscle weakness ,  areflexia ,  contractures and foot deformities .
any hirschsprung disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the edn3 gene .
any treacher - collins syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the polr1d gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the msrb3 gene .
kcnq2 - related epileptic encephalopathy is a severe form of neonatal epilepsy that usually manifests in newborns during the first week of life with seizures  ( that affect alternatively both sides of the body )  ,  often accompanied by clonic jerking or more complex motor behavior ,  as well as signs of encephalopathy such as diffuse hypotonia ,  limb spasticity ,  lack of visual fixation and tracking and mild to moderate intellectual deficiency .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn2a gene .
early infantile epileptic encephalopathy type 12  ( eiee12 )  is an extremely rare nervous system disorder .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2q  ( lgmd2q )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by proximal muscle weakness presenting in early childhood  ( with occasional falls and difficulties in climbing stairs )  and a progressive course resulting in loss of ambulation in early adulthood .
leukoencephalopathy - dystonia - motor neuropathy syndrome is a peroxisomal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by spasmodic torticollis ,  dystonic head tremor ,  intention tremor ,  nystagmus ,  hyposmia ,  and hypergonadotrophic hypogonadism with azoospermia .
any autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ano10 gene .
distal 7q11 .23 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by epilepsy ,  neurodevelopmental disorder variably including developmental delays and intellectual disabilities of variable severity ,  learning disability and neurobehavioral abnormalities  ( autism spectrum disorder ,  hyperactivity ,  impulsivity ,  aggression ,  self - abusive behaviors ,  depression )  .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rho gene .
1p31p32 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 1 ,  characterized by developmental delay ,  corpus callosum agenesis / hypoplasia and craniofacial dysmorphism ,  such as macrocephaly  ( caused by hydrocephalus or ventriculomegaly )  ,  low - set ears ,  anteverted nostrils and micrognathia .
any familial acne inversa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the psenen gene .
any familial acne inversa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the psen1 gene .
clah due to loss - of - function mutations in the cyp11a1 gene ,  resulting in decreased or absent activity of the enzyme p450scc ,  which leads to reduced conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone ,  the first step in steroidogenesis .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap4e1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nrl gene .
any visceral heterotaxy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the acvr2b gene .
psychomotor retardation due to s - adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase deficiency is characterised by psychomotor delay and severe myopathy  ( hypotonia ,  absent tendon reflexes and delayed myelination )  from birth ,  associated with hypermethioninaemia and elevated serum creatine kinase levels .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cnga1 gene .
any age - related macular degeneration in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rax2 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sag gene .
a rare genetic immunological disease reported in a single consanguineous pakistani family with several affected members presenting with severe bacterial and viral infections ,  recurrent hepatopathy  ( portal inflammation ,  fibrosis )  ,  and recurrent ,  stereotypical febrile episodes ,  sometimes lasting several days ,  with encephalopathy and difficult - to - control seizures .
any age - related macular degeneration in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc6 gene .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cryab gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ttn gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cngb1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rgr gene .
any age - related macular degeneration in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the arms2 gene .
a rare genetic disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance .
a rare defect resulting in c1 deficiency and impaired activation of the complement classical pathway .
any age - related macular degeneration in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cx3cr1 gene .
any classic complement early component deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c8b gene .
any classic complement early component deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c8a gene .
immunodeficiency due to masp - 2 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic immunodeficiency due to a complement cascade protein anomaly characterized by low serum levels of masp - 2 and a variable susceptibility to bacterial infections  ( e .g .
distal monosomy 3p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 3 ,  with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by pre -  and post - natal growth retardation ,  intellectual disability ,  developmental delay and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  trigonocephaly ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  telecanthus ,  ptosis ,  micrognathia )  .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpe65 gene .
any meier - gorlin syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the orc4 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pde6b gene .
any meier - gorlin syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the orc6 gene .
any meier - gorlin syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdt1 gene .
any meier - gorlin syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdc6 gene .
primary sclerosing cholangitis  ( psc )  is a rare ,  slowly progressive liver disease characterized by inflammation and destruction of the intra -  and / or extra - hepatic bile ducts that lead to cholestasis ,  liver fibrosis ,  liver cirrhosis and ultimately liver failure .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccdc39 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccdc40 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ush2a gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pde6a gene .
any non - syndromic pontocerebellar hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sepsecs gene .
congenital bile acid synthesis defect type 3  ( bas defect type 3 )  is a severe anomaly of bile acid synthesis characterized by severe neonatal cholestatic liver disease .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2p  ( lgmd2p )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by slowly - progressive mainly proximal muscle weakness presenting in early childhood  ( with difficulties walking and climbing stairs )  and mild to severe intellectual disability .
an asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy has material basis in compound heterozygous mutation in the ttc21b gene on chromosome 2q24 .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ttc21b gene .
any seckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep152 gene .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nek8 gene .
any classic complement early component deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c9 gene .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpgrip1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the guca1b gene .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crx gene .
any congenital stationary night blindness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc24a1 gene .
any progressive myoclonic epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prickle2 gene .
multisystemic smooth muscle dysfunction syndrome is a disease in which the activity of smooth muscle throughout the body is impaired .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crb1 gene .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the impdh1 gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myoz2 gene .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tulp1 gene .
any osteogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the serpinh1 gene .
any osteogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sp7 gene .
an inherited condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the itpa gene ,  encoding inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase .
any dextro - looped transposition of the great arteries in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gdf1 gene .
episodic ataxia type 5  ( ea5 )  is an extremely rare form of hereditary episodic ataxia characterized by recurrent episodes of vertigo and ataxia lasting several hours .
any achromatopsia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gnat2 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dhdds gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mertk gene .
any generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn9a gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc26a5 gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the jph2 gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pln gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the calr3 gene .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nexn gene .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bag3 gene .
monosomy 13q14 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 13 ,  characterized by developmental delay ,  variable degrees of intellectual disability ,  retinoblastoma and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
any meckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tctn2 gene .
any cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tdrd7 gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 35  ( sca35 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  characterized by the adult - onset of progressive gait and limb ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  ocular dysmetria ,  intention tremor ,  hyperreflexia and spasmodic torticollis .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 32  ( sca32 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  characterized by ataxia ,  cognitive impairment and azoospermia in males .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kars gene .
any autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lipn gene .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in a mutation of shank3 on chromosome 22q13 .33 .
any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slx4 gene .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vcp gene .
any familial chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il17f gene .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nr5a1 gene .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dpy19l2 gene .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in a mutation on chromosome 7q36 .3 .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grin2b gene .
hemoglobin h  ( hbh )  disease is a moderate to severe form of alpha - thalassemia characterized by pronounced microcytic hypochromic hemolytic anemia .
any familial atrial fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnj2 gene .
any hypotrichosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt74 gene .
any osteogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the serpinf1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prpf6 gene .
abnormal clinical manifestations of beta thalassemia that are as a result of the underlying genotype .
any combined pituitary hormone deficiencies ,  genetic form in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the otx2 gene .
a dyskeratosis congenita that has material basis in an autosomal recessive mutation of nola2 on chromosome 5q35 .3 .
a dyskeratosis congenita that has material basis in an autosomal recessive mutation of wrap53 on chromosome 17p13 .1 .
a dyskeratosis congenita that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of tert on chromosome 5p15 .33 .
a dyskeratosis congenita that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of tinf2 on chromosome 14q12 .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnal1 gene .
any progressive myoclonic epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gosr2 gene .
any lissencephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nde1 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tecr gene .
any catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tecrl gene .
any familial atrial fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn5a gene .
3 - phosphoserine phosphatase deficiency is an extremely rare form of serine deficiency syndrome characterized clinically by congenital microcephaly and severe psychomotor retardation in the single reported case to date ,  which was associated with williams syndrome .
hyperlipidemia due to hepatic triacylglycerol lipase deficiency is a rare ,  genetic hyperalphalipoproteinemia characterized by elevated plasma cholesterol and triglyceride  ( tg )  levels with a marked tg enrichment of low -  and high - density lipoproteins  ( hdl )  ,  presence of circulating beta - very low density lipoproteins and elevated hdl cholesterol levels ,  in the presence of a very low ,  or undetectable ,  postheparin plasma hepatic lipase activity .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cldn14 gene .
leukotriene c4 synthase deficiency is an extremely rare fatal neurometabolic developmental disorder characterized clinically by muscular hypotonia ,  psychomotor retardation ,  failure to thrive ,  and microcephaly .
deafness  -  lymphedema  -  leukemia is a very rare ,  serious syndromic genetic disorder characterized by primary lymphedema ,  immunodeficiency ,  and hematological disorders .
any complex cortical dysplasia with other brain malformations in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tubb3 gene .
any moyamoya disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the acta2 gene .
any familial atrial fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gja5 gene .
any familial atrial fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abcc9 gene .
a mitochondrial complex deficiency characterized by early neonatal onset of hypotonia ,  hypetrophic cardiomyopathy and apneic spells within hours after birth accompanied by lactic acidosis ,  hyperammonemia and 3 - methylglutaconic aciduria .
any mitochondrial proton - transporting atp synthase complex deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atp5f1e gene .
distal myopathy with posterior leg and anterior hand involvement ,  also named distal abd - filaminopathy ,  is a neuromuscular disease characterized by a progressive symmetric muscle weakness of anterior upper and posterior lower limbs .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap4b1 gene .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap4s1 gene .
any immunodeficiency - centromeric instability - facial anomalies syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zbtb24 gene .
any psoriasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the traf3ip2 gene .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hps3 gene .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hps4 gene .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hps5 gene .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hps6 gene .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dtnbp1 gene .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bloc1s3 gene .
any multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome - intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pign gene .
fanconi anemia caused by mutations of the fancg gene .
any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fancl gene .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myh6 gene .
any familial sick sinus syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myh6 gene .
an asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the wdr35 gene on chromosome 2p21 .1 .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 8 is a mitochondrial disease due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis resulting in deficiency of respiratory chain complexes i ,  iii and iv in the cardiac and skeletal muscle and brain characterized by severe hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  pulmonary hypoplasia ,  generalized muscle weakness and neurological involvement .
acatalasemia is a congenital disorder resulting from a deficiency in erythrocyte catalase ,  an enzyme responsible for the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide .
any cranioectodermal dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ift43 gene .
deficiencies in immunoglobulin  ( ig )  isotypes  ( including: isolated igg subclass deficiency ,  igg sublcass deficiency with iga deficiency and kappa chain deficiency )  are primary immunodeficiencies that are often asymptomatic but can be characterized by recurrent ,  often pyogenic ,  sinopulmonary infections .
disorder of adipose tissue characterized by symmetric and bilateral enlargement of the lower extremities due to abnormal deposition of subcutaneous fat often in obese women .
an autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of dyrk1a on chromosome 21q22 .13 .
pyruvate dehydrogenase e1 - beta deficiency is an extremely rare form of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  characterized by severe lactic acidosis ,  developmental delay and hypotonia .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dock8 gene .
any mosaic variegated aneuploidy syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep57 gene .
a hereditary sensory neuropathy characterized by adult onset of progressive peripheral sensory loss ,  progressive hearing impairment ,  and early - onset dementia that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the dnmt1 gene on chromosome 19p13 .
any hydrolethalus syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kif7 gene .
a condition that affects how the body breaks down sugar to use as energy in muscle cells .
any perrault syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clpp gene .
any focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myo1e gene .
any autosomal recessive stickler syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col9a1 gene .
any multiple epiphyseal dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col9a1 gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the diablo gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 36  ( sca36 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  characterized by gait and limb ataxia ,  lower limb spasticity ,  dysarthria ,  muscle fasiculations ,  tongue atrophy and hyperreflexia .
hyperbiliverdinemia is a rare ,  genetic hepatic disease characterized by the presence of green coloration of the skin ,  urine ,  plasma and other body fluids  ( ascites ,  breastmilk )  or parts  ( sclerae )  due to increased serum levels of biliverdin in association with biliary obstruction and / or liver failure .
any inherited bleeding disorder ,  platelet - type in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tbxas1 gene .
myostatin - related muscle hypertrophy is a rare condition characterized by reduced body fat and increased muscle size .
autoimmune enteropathy and endocrinopathy - susceptibility to chronic infections syndrome is an extremely rare ,  autosomal dominant immunological disorder characterized by variable enteropathy ,  endocrine disorders  ( e .g .
a sleep disorder characterized by difficulty in falling asleep and / or remaining asleep .
any paraganglioma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sdha gene .
any myopia  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the znf644 gene .
any brittle cornea syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prdm5 gene .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bloc1s6 gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tctn1 gene .
any meckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the b9d2 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clrn1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mak gene .
any geleophysic dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fbn1 gene .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnj13 gene .
any primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pde8b gene .
this syndrome is characterised by tall stature ,  learning difficulties and facial dysmorphism .
any nephrotic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ptpro gene .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn4a gene .
lamb2 - related infantile - onset nephrotic syndrome is a rare primary glomerular disease due to homozygous mutations in lamb2 gene ,  characterized by prenatal or early - onset progressive steroid - resistant nephrotic syndrome leading to renal failure ,  and variable ocular defects including myopia ,  fundus abnormalities ,  strabismus or nystagmus ,  without severe visual impairment or blindness .
any inherited bleeding disorder ,  platelet - type in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the itga2 gene .
any inherited bleeding disorder ,  platelet - type in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gp6 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the man1b1 gene .
any parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vps35 gene .
any psoriasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il36rn gene .
any 3 - m syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccdc8 gene .
any hyperphosphatasia - intellectual disability syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pgap2 gene .
any meckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the b9d1 gene .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 13q34 .
any encephalopathy ,  acute ,  infection - induced in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cpt2 gene .
any hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kif1a gene .
any adams - oliver syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dock6 gene .
any warburg micro syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rab18 gene .
any warburg micro syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rab3gap2 gene .
any holoprosencephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdon gene .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dync1h1 gene .
any autosomal recessive syndromic cerebellar ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the syt14 gene .
8q21 .11 microdeletion syndrome encompasses heterozygous overlapping microdeletions on chromosome 8q21 .11 resulting in intellectual disability ,  facial dysmorphism comprising a round face ,  ptosis ,  short philtrum ,  cupid's bow and prominent low - set ears ,  nasal speech and mild finger and toe anomalies .
familial progressive hyperpigmentation is a rare ,  genetic ,  skin pigmentation anomaly disorder characterized by irregular patches of hyperpigmented skin which present at birth or in early infancy and increase in size ,  number and confluence with age .
a hypotrichosis that has material basis in an autosomal recessive mutation on chromosome 10q11 .23 - q22 .3 .
a hypotrichosis that has material basis in an autosomal recessive mutation on chromosome 7p22 .3 - p21 .3 .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the med23 gene .
any narcolepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mog gene .
any hereditary late onset parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the eif4g1 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grin1 gene .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the kif1a gene ,  encoding kinesin - like protein kif1a .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacng2 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the epb41l1 gene .
combined malonic and methylmalonic acidemia is a rare inborn error of metabolism characterized by elevation of malonic acid  ( ma )  and methylmalonic acid  ( mma )  in body fluids ,  with higher levels of mma than ma .
esophageal lesion lined with columnar metaplastic epithelium which is flat or villiform .
any autosomal recessive stickler syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col9a2 gene .
tetrasomy 18p is a very rare structural chromosomal anomaly affecting multiple body systems and characterized clinically by craniofacial abnormalities ,  delayed development ,  cognitive impairment ,  changes in muscle tone ,  distinctive facial features ,  and rarely renal malformations .
any hereditary breast ovarian cancer syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rad51d gene .
any complete hydatidiform mole in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the khdc3l gene .
wolfram - like syndrome is a rare endocrine disease characterized by the triad of adult - onset diabetes mellitus ,  progressive hearing loss  ( usually presenting in the first decade of life and principally of low to moderate frequencies )  ,  and / or juvenile - onset optic atrophy .
mitochondrial membrane protein - sssociated neurodegeneration  ( mpan )  ,  also known as neurogeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  due to c19orf12 mutations ,  is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by iron accumulation in specific regions of the brain ,  usually the basal ganglia ,  and associated with slowly progressive pyramidal  ( spasticity )  and extrapyramidal  ( dystonia )  signs ,  motor axonal neuropathy ,  optic atrophy ,  cognitive decline ,  and neuropsychiatric abnormalities .
any fatal multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bola3 gene .
hypermethioninemia encephalopathy due to adenosine kinase deficiency is a rare inborn error of metabolism characterized by persistent hypermethioninemia with increased levels of s - adenosylmethionine and s - adenosylhomocysteine which manifests with encephalopathy ,  severe global developmental delay ,  mild to severe liver dysfunction ,  hypotonia and facial dysmorphism  ( most significant is frontal bossing ,  macrocephaly ,  hypertelorism and depressed nasal bridge )  .
any autosomal dominant emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem43 gene .
edict  ( endothelial dystrophy - iris hypoplasia - congenital cataract - stromal thinning )  syndrome is a very rare eye disorder representing a constellation of autosomal dominantly inherited ocular findings ,  including early - onset or congenital cataracts ,  corneal stromal thinning ,  early - onset keratoconus ,  corneal endothelial dystrophy ,  and iris hypoplasia .
any sclerosteosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrp4 gene .
a rare disorder caused by mutation in the amacr gene .
any familial pancreatic carcinoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the brca1 gene .
distal myopathy ,  tateyama type is a rare ,  genetic ,  slowly progressive ,  distal myopathy disorder characterized by muscle atrophy and weakness limited to the small muscles of the hands and feet  ( in particular ,  thenar and hypothenar muscle atrophy )  ,  increased serum creatine kinase ,  and severely reduced caveolin - 3 expression on muscle biopsy .
autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia - epilepsy - intellectual disability syndrome due to wwox deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia - epilepsy - intellectual disability syndrome characterized by early - childhood onset of cerebellar ataxia associated with generalized tonic - clonic epilepsy and psychomotor development delay ,  dysarthria ,  gaze - evoked nystagmus and learning disability .
linear and whorled nevoid hypermelanosis  ( lwnh )  is a rare skin condition characterized by swirling streaks of hyperpigmented  ( darkened )  skin .
any 46 xx gonadal dysgenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the psmc3ip gene .
any pitt - hopkins - like syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nrxn1 gene .
feingold syndrome type 2  ( fs2 )  is a rare inherited malformation syndrome characterized by skeletal abnormalities and mild intellectual disabilities similar to those seen in feingold syndrome type 1  ( fs1 )  but that lacks the manifestations of gastrointestinal atresia and short palpebral fissures .
bap1 - related tumor predisposition syndrome  ( tpds )  is an inherited cancer - predisposing syndrome ,  associated with germline mutations in bap1 tumor suppressor gene .
any neonatal inflammatory skin and bowel disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the adam17 gene .
any hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tgfbr2 gene .
any hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pms2 gene .
an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutation ( s )  in the pnlip gene ,  encoding pancreatic triacylglycerol lipase .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lins1 gene .
any hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the msh6 gene .
any hereditary pulmonary alveolar proteinosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the csf2rb gene .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sigmar1 gene .
any jeune syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wdr19 gene .
a nephronophthisis that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the wdr19 gene on chromosome 4p14 .
any classic complement early component deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c4b gene .
any classic complement early component deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c4a gene .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the polr3b gene .
any bacteremia ,  susceptibility in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tirap gene .
any bacteremia ,  susceptibility in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cish gene .
any hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mlh3 gene .
any pregnancy loss ,  recurrent ,  susceptibility in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the f5 gene .
any pregnancy loss ,  recurrent ,  susceptibility in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the f2 gene .
any pregnancy loss ,  recurrent ,  susceptibility in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the anxa5 gene .
acute graft - versus - host disease  ( gvhd )  occurs after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant and is a reaction of donor immune cells against host tissues .
any syndromic microphthalmia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vax1 gene .
microcephaly - cerebellar hypoplasia - cardiac conduction defect syndrome is a rare ,  genetic congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by growth failure ,  global developmental delay ,  profound intellectual disability ,  autistic behaviors ,  acquired second - degree heart block with bradycardia and vasomotor instability .
any autosomal dominant centronuclear myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myf6 gene .
a rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an onset ,  in infancy or childhood ,  of the typical signs of spastic paraplegia  ( i .e .
an autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 1p36 .31 - p36 .13 .
any chilblain lupus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the samhd1 gene .
lethal occipital encephalocele - skeletal dysplasia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  bone development disorder characterized by occipital and parietal bone hypoplasia leading to occipital encephalocele ,  calvarial mineralization defects ,  craniosynostosis ,  radiohumeral fusions ,  oligodactyly and other skeletal anomalies  ( arachnodactyly ,  terminal phalangeal aplasia of the thumbs ,  bilateral absence of the great toes ,  pronounced bilateral angulation of femora ,  shortened limbs ,  advanced osseous maturation )  .
a temporal lobe epilepsy that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the cpa6 gene on chromosome 8q13 .
an instance of systemic lupus erythematosus  ( disease )  that is caused by mutations in dnase1l3 .
a cataract that has material basis in variation in the region 12q24 .2 - q24 .3 .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem237 gene .
any ventricular septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gata4 gene .
any atrioventricular septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gata4 gene .
any ventricular septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cited2 gene .
any ventricular septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nkx2 - 5 gene .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cited2 gene .
any autosomal dominant cutis laxa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fbln5 gene .
any hypoplastic left heart syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nkx2 - 5 gene .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrsam1 gene .
an autosomal recessive cutis laxa type i characterized by disturbed elastic fiber formation resulting in severe systemic connective tissue abnormalities that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the efemp2 gene on chromosome 11q13 .
any de barsy syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pycr1 gene .
any primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slco2a1 gene .
any hypothyroidism ,  congenital ,  nongoitrous in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the thra gene .
autosomal dominant intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type e is characterised by the association of charcot - marie - tooth disease  ( hereditary peripheral neuropathy )  with nephropathy .
mitf - related melanoma and renal cell carcinoma predisposition syndrome is an inherited cancer - predisposing syndrome due to a gain - of - function germline mutation in the mitf gene ,  associated with a higher incidence of amelanotic and nodular melanoma ,  multiple primary melanomas and increase in nevus number and size .
lipoic acid synthetase deficiency is a rare condition that affects the mitochondria .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep41 gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem138 gene .
any coronary artery disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mmp3 gene .
plcg2 - associated antibody deficiency and immune dysregulation is a rare ,  hereditary ,  immune deficiency with skin involvement characterized by early - onset cold urticaria after generalized exposure to cold air or evaporative cooling and not after contact with cold objects .
ras - associated autoimmune leukoproliferative disease  ( rald )  is a rare genetic disorder characterized by monocytosis ,  autoimmune cytopenias ,  lymphoproliferation ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  and hypergammaglobulinemia .
any arterial calcification of infancy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abcc6 gene .
any atrioventricular septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gata6 gene .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gata6 gene .
any porencephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col4a2 gene .
any isolated trigonocephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the frem1 gene .
early - onset spastic ataxia - myoclonic epilepsy - neuropathy syndrome is a rare hereditary spastic ataxia disorder characterized by childhood onset of slowly progressive lower limb spastic paraparesis and cerebellar ataxia  ( with dysarthria ,  swallowing difficulties ,  motor degeneration )  ,  associated with sensorimotor neuropathy  ( including muscle weakness and distal amyotrophy in lower extremities )  and progressive myoclonic epilepsy .
any pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wnk4 gene .
any pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wnk1 gene .
any wiskott - aldrich syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wipf1 gene .
a retinitis pigmentosa that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 6q23 .
any pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the klhl3 gene .
any pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cul3 gene .
any microphthalmia ,  isolated ,  with coloboma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abcb6 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cradd gene .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c8orf37 gene .
any usher syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hars gene .
 ( 1p36 .1 )  .
any familial congenital mirror movements in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rad51 gene .
bleeding into one or both cerebral hemispheres including the basal ganglia and the cerebral cortex .
any essential thrombocythemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the jak2 gene .
any fibrochondrogenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col11a2 gene .
17q12 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly with variable phenotypic expression and reduced penetrance associated with developmental delay ,  mild to severe intellectual disability ,  speech delay ,  seizures ,  microcephaly ,  behavioral abnormalities ,  autism spectrum disorder ,  eye or vision defects  ( such as strabismus ,  astigmatism ,  amblyopia ,  cataract ,  coloboma ,  and microphthalmia )  ,  non - specific dysmorphic features ,  hypotonia ,  cardiac and renal anomalies ,  schizophrenia .
17q12 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 17 characterized by renal cystic disease ,  maturity onset diabetes of the young type 5 ,  and neurodevelopmental disorders ,  such as cognitive impairment ,  developmental delay  ( particularly of speech )  ,  autistic traits and autism spectrum disorder .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  kyphoscoliotic and deafness type is a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  characterized by severe generalized hypotonia at birth with severe early - onset kyphoscolosis along with joint hypermobility  ( without contractures )  leading to recurrent dislocations ,  and sensorineural hearing impairment .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn8a gene .
infantile cerebellar retinal degeneration  ( icrd )  is a genetic condition present from birth  ( congenital )  that involves the brain and eyes .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dync1h1 gene .
any congenital stationary night blindness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gpr179 gene .
maffucci syndrome is a very rare genetic bone and skin disorder characterized by multiple enchondromas ,  leading to bone deformities ,  combined with multiple dark ,  irregularly shaped hemangiomas or less commonly lymphangiomas .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 9 is a rare mitochondrial disease due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by initially normal growth and development followed by the infantile - onset of failure to thrive ,  psychomotor delay ,  poor feeding ,  dyspnea ,  severe hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and hepatomegaly .
any baraitser - winter cerebrofrontofacial syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the actg1 gene .
primary dystonia ,  dyt21 type is a subtype of mixed dystonia with a late - onset form of pure torsion dystonia .
any preeclampsia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the corin gene .
any tricho - hepato - enteric syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the skiv2l gene .
any coffin - siris syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the arid1a gene .
any coffin - siris syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the smarcb1 gene .
any coffin - siris syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the smarca4 gene .
any acrodysostosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pde4d gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ceacam16 gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cplane1 gene .
any congenital diarrhea in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gucy2c gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tbc1d24 gene .
any hereditary hyperekplexia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc6a5 gene .
any hereditary hyperekplexia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the glrb gene .
any uv - sensitive syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc8 gene .
any uv - sensitive syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the uvssa gene .
any muscular dystrophy - dystroglycanopathy ,  type a in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ispd gene .
deafness - encephaloneuropathy - obesity - valvulopathy syndrome is a rare mitochondrial disease with marked clinical variability typically characterized by encephalomyopathy ,  kidney disease  ( nephrotic syndrome )  ,  optic atrophy ,  early - onset deafness ,  pancytopenia ,  obesity ,  and cardiac disease  ( valvulopathy )  .
any coenzyme q10 deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pdss2 gene .
any hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dst gene .
encephalopathy - hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - renal tubular disease syndrome is a rare mitochondrial disease due to a defect in coenzyme q10 biosynthesis that manifests with a broad spectrum of signs and symptoms which may include: neonatal lactic acidosis ,  global developmental delay ,  tonus disorder ,  seizures ,  reduced spontaneous movements ,  ventricular hypertrophy ,  bradycardia ,  renal tubular dysfunction with massive lactic acid excretion in urine ,  severe biochemical defect of respiratory chain complexes ii / iii when assayed together and deficiency of coenzyme q10 in skeletal muscle .
decreased activity of the enzyme 11 - beta - hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 due to inactivating mutation ( s )  in the hsd11b1 gene .
any meconium ileus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gucy2c gene .
any auriculocondylar syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the plcb4 gene .
proximal 16p11 .2 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from a partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 16 characterized by developmental delay and intellectual disability of a highly variable degree ,  autism spectrum ,  obsessive - compulsive ,  attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ,  speech articulation abnormalities ,  muscular hypotonia ,  tremor ,  hyper -  or hyporeflexia ,  seizures ,  microcephaly ,  neuroimaging abnormalities ,  decreased body mass index and schizophrenia or bipolar disorder later on in life .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gatad1 gene .
any autosomal recessive primary microcephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep135 gene .
a hypertrophic cardiomyopathy associated that has material basis in region 7p12 .1 - q21 variation .
any non - syndromic pontocerebellar hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the exosc3 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccdc103 gene .
pontine tegmental cap dysplasia  ( ptcd )  is a non - progressive neurological disorder characterized by significant developmental delay ,  cranial nerve dysfunction ,  and malformation of the hindbrain .individuals with ptcd may have a collection of medical and developmental problems including: hearing impairment ,  ataxia , language and speech disorders ,  feeding and swallowingdifficulties ,  heartmalformations and facial paralysis .the severity of themedical problems varies among patients .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the agk gene .
idiopathic membranous glomerulonephritis  ( img )  is a primary glomerular disease characterized by proteinuria ,  usually in the nephrotic range ,  with preserved renal function .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chmp2b gene .
any cornelia de lange syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rad21 gene .
mitochondrial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with lactic acidosis due to mto1 deficiency is a rare mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder with complex i and iv deficiency characterized by lactic acidosis ,  hypotonia ,  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and global developmental delay .
any neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grn gene .
any brown - vialetto - van laere syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc52a2 gene .
adenine phosphoribosyltransferase  ( aprt )  deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive  ( ar )  disorder characterized by the formation and hyperexcretion of 2 , 8 - dihydroxyadenine  ( 2 , 8 - dha )  in urine ,  causing urolithiasis and crystalline nephropathy .
 ( 4q12 )  .
any seckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep63 gene .
any familial prostate cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the elac2 gene .
image syndrome is characterized by the association of intrauterine growth retardation ,  metaphyseal dysplasia  ( and short limbs )  ,  adrenal hypoplasia congenita ,  and genital anomalies .
any familial glucocorticoid deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nnt gene .
any 3 - methylglutaconic aciduria in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the serac1 gene .
any skin basal cell carcinoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tp53 gene .
an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder characterized by delayed psychomotor development and lactic acidosis with a normal lactate / pyruvate ratio resulting from impaired mitochondrial pyruvate oxidation .
any pulmonary fibrosis and / or bone marrow failure ,  telomere - related in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tert gene .
any congenital hereditary facial paralysis - variable hearing loss syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hoxb1 gene .
congenital nephrotic syndrome - interstitial lung disease - epidermolysis bullosa syndrome is a life - threatening multiorgan disorder which develops in the first months of life ,  presenting with respiratory distress and proteinuria in the nephrotic range ,  and leading to severe interstitial lung disease and renal failure .
any hyperphosphatasia - intellectual disability syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pigo gene .
any congenital myasthenic syndromes with glycosylation defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dpagt1 gene .
any neuronopathy ,  distal hereditary motor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the reep1 gene .
malan overgrowth syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by moderate postnatal overgrowth ,  macrocephaly ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( including high forehead and anterior hairline ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  prominent chin )  ,  developmental delay ,  and intellectual disability .
non - progressive cerebellar ataxia with intellectual deficit is a rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  characterized by the onset in infancy of cerebellar ataxia ,  neonatal hypotonia  ( in some )  ,  mild developmental delay and ,  in later life ,  intellectual disability .
any essential tremor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fus gene .
congenital myopathy with internal nuclei and atypical cores is a rare genetic skeletal muscle disease characterized by neonatal hypotonia ,  distal more than proximal muscle weakness ,  progressive exercise intolerance with prominent myalgias ,  and mild - to - moderate overall motor impairment with preserved ambulation .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pfn1 gene .
glomerulonephritis characterized by c3 accumulation with little or absent deposition of immunoglobulin ,  in the absence of ultrastructural electron - dense transformation seen in dense deposit disease .
any multiple sclerosis ,  susceptibility to in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnfrsf1a gene .
any adams - oliver syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rbpj gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tctn3 gene .
any loeys - dietz syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tgfb2 gene .
any interstitial nephritis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fan1 gene .
any weill - marchesani syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ltbp2 gene .
any alternating hemiplegia of childhood in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atp1a3 gene .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sept12 gene .
any aortic valve disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the smad6 gene .
any muscular dystrophy - dystroglycanopathy ,  type a in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pomgnt2 gene .
autosomal recessive congenital cerebellar ataxia due to mglur1 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  slowly progressive neurodegenerative disease resulting from mglur1 deficiency characterized by global developmental delay  ( beginning in infancy )  ,  mild to severe intellectual deficit with poor or absent speech ,  moderate to severe stance and gait ataxia ,  pyramidal signs  ( e .g .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the odaph gene .
bilateral generalized polymicrogyria is a rare neurological disorder that affects the cerebral cortex  ( the outer surface of the brain )  .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kiss1r gene .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nsmf gene .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tac3 gene .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tacr3 gene .
a hypogonadotropic hypogonadism that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the gnrh1 gene on chromosome 8p21 .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kiss1 gene .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the znf423 gene .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep164 gene .
any herpes simplex encephalitis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the traf3 gene .
any herpes simplex encephalitis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ticam1 gene .
microcephalic primordial dwarfism ,  dauber type is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by severe pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  severe microcephaly ,  severe developmental delay and intelletual disability ,  severe adult short stature and facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
any autosomal recessive primary microcephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep152 gene .
any osteogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bmp1 gene .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wdr11 gene .
any dystonic disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacna1b gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tspear gene .
combined immunodeficiency due to stk4 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic combined t and b cell immunodeficiency characterized by t -  and b - cell lymphopenia ,  hypergammaglobulinemia and intermittent neutropenia .
any usher syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cib2 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnaaf5 gene .
metaphyseal chondromatosis with d - 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria is an extremely rare genetic disorder characterized by the unique association of enchondromatosis with d - 2 hydroxyglutaric aciduria .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hs6st1 gene .
young adult - onset distal hereditary motor neuropathy is a rare autosomal recessive distal hereditary motor neuropathy characterized by slowly progressive muscular weakness ,  hypotonia and atrophy of the lower limbs ,  more pronounced distally ,  leading to paralysis ,  and loss of tendon reflexes .
any primary immunodeficiency disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ifngr2 gene .
any autosomal recessive mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases due to a complete deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il12b gene .
any autosomal recessive mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases due to a complete deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il12rb1 gene .
mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to partial stat1  ( signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 )  deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a partial defect in the interferon  ( ifn )  - gamma pathway ,  leading to mild mycobacterial infections .
mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to partial irf8  ( interferon regulatory factor 8 )  deficiency is a rare genetic variant of msmd characterized by a selective susceptibility to relatively mild infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  . .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4f  ( cmt4f )  is a severe ,  demyelinating subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by the childhood onset of a slowly - progressing typical cmt phenotype  ( i .e .
sinoatrial node dysfunction and deafness is a rare genetic disease characterized by congenital severe to profound deafness with no evidence of vestibular dysfunction ,  associated with sinoatrial node dysfunction with pronounced bradycardia and increased variability of heart rate at rest and episodic syncopes that may be triggered by enhanced physical activity and stress .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sema3a gene .
a very rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by early - onset spastic paraplegia  ( with spasticity in the lower extremities that progresses to the upper extremities )  associated with developmental and motor delay ,  mild to moderate cognitive and speech delay ,  skeletal dysmorphism  ( e .g .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cabp2 gene .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpl26 gene .
any lethal congenital contracture syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mybpc1 gene .
any catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the calm1 gene .
any peroxisome biogenesis disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pex11b gene .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rmnd1 gene .
autism - epilepsy syndrome due to branched chain ketoacid dehydrogenase kinase deficiency is a rare disorder of branched - chain amino acid metabolism characterized by childhood - onset epilepsy ,  autism and intellectual disability with reduced levels of plasma branched chain aminoacids .
leukoencephalopathy - thalamus and brainstem anomalies - high lactate  ( ltbl )  syndrome is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder defined by early - onset of neurologic symptoms ,  biphasic clinical course ,  unique mri features  ( incl .
any perrault syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hars2 gene .
any pure hair and nail ectodermal dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt74 gene .
any pure hair and nail ectodermal dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hoxc13 gene .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 13 is a rare mitochondrial disease due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by normal early development followed by the sudden onset in infancy of poor feeding ,  dysphagia ,  truncal  ( followed by global )  hypotonia ,  motor regression ,  abnormal movements  ( i .e .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pnpt1 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrrc6 gene .
familial cortical myoclonus is a rare ,  genetic movement disorder characterized by autosomal dominant ,  adult - onset ,  slowly progressive ,  multifocal ,  cortical myoclonus .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the otogl gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the otog gene .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fars2 gene .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 15 is a rare mitochondrial disease due to a defect in mitochondrial protein synthesis characterized by onset in infancy or early childhood of muscular hypotonia ,  gait ataxia ,  mild bilateral pyramidal tract signs ,  developmental delay  ( affecting mostly speech and coordination )  and subsequent intellectual disability .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnt1 gene .
a novel very rare form of pontocerebellar hypoplasia  ( see this term )  characterized clinically by progressive microencephaly ,  feeding difficulties ,  severe developmental delay ,  although walking may be achieved ,  hypotonia often associated with increased muscle tone of lower extremities and deep tendon reflexes ,  joint deformities in the lower extremities ,  and occasionally complex seizures .
congenital leptin deficiency is a form of monogenic obesity characterised by severe early - onset obesity and marked hyperphagia .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 7  ( pch7 )  is a novel very rare form of pontocerebellar hypoplasia with unknown etiology and poor prognosis reported in four patients and is characterized clinically during the neonatal period by hypotonia ,  no palpable gonads ,  micropenis and from infancy by progressive microcephaly ,  apneic episodes ,  poor feeding ,  seizures and regression of penis .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem231 gene .
focal facial dermal dysplasia type ii  ( ffdd2 )  is a focal facial dermal dysplasia  ( ffdd )  ,  characterized by congenital bitemporal scar - like depressions and other facial and organ abnormalities .
focal facial dermal dysplasia type iv  ( ffdd4 )  is a rare focal facial dysplasia  ( ffdd )  ,  characterized by congenital isolated preauricular and / or cheek blister scar - like lesions .
any carpenter syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the megf8 gene .
optic nerve edema - splenomegaly syndrome is a rare presumably genetic disorder characterized by idiopathic massive splenomegaly with pancytopenia and childhood - onset chronic optic nerve edema with slowly progressive vision loss .
any congenital heart malformation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tab2 gene .
an usher syndrome type 1 that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 10p11 .21 - q21 .1 .
any autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnt1 gene .
glomerulonephritis characterized by mesangial proliferation ,  endocapillary proliferation ,  and glomerular capillary wall remodeling with immune complex deposits from classical complement pathway activation .
intellectual disability - craniofacial dysmorphism - cryptorchidism syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disability syndrome characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability ,  developmental delay  ( with speech and language development more severely affected )  and facial dysmorphism which typically includes full ,  arched eyebrows ,  hypertelorism ,  down - slanting palpebral fissures ,  long eyelashes ,  ptosis ,  low - set ,  simple ears ,  bulbous nasal tip ,  flat philtrum ,  wide mouth with downturned corners and thin upper lip and diastema of the teeth .
any aicardi - goutieres syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the adar gene .
an autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis characterized by fine whitish scales ,  moderate to severe erythroderma ,  compact hyperkeratosis ,  hypergranulosis ,  acanthosis ,  and papillomatosis that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 12p11 .2 - q13 .1 .
any autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cers3 gene .
any autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pnpla1 gene .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2q is a rare subtype of autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 characterized by adolescent to adulthood - onset of symmetrical ,  slowly progressive distal muscle weakness and atrophy  ( with a predominant weakness of the distal lower limbs )  associated with reduced or absent deep tendon reflexes ,  pes cavus and mild to moderated deep sensory impairment .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cyp2u1 gene .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tecpr2 gene .
a rare ,  complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by the onset in early childhood of progressive spastic paraplegia associated with cerebellar signs ,  short stature ,  delayed psychomotor development ,  intellectual disability and ,  less commonly ,  foot contractures ,  dysarthria ,  dysphagia ,  strabismus and optic hypoplasia .
any dystonic disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ano3 gene .
any muscular dystrophy - dystroglycanopathy ,  type a in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rxylt1 gene .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 43 is a rare ,  complex hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a childhood to adolescent onset of progressive lower limb spasticity ,  associated with mild to severe gait disturbances ,  extensor plantar responses ,  muscle weakness and severe distal atrophy ,  frequently with upper limb involvement .
any congenital stationary night blindness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrit3 gene .
any hypotrichosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the snrpe gene .
distal arthrogryposis type 5d is a rare subtype of distal arthrogryposis syndrome characterized by arthrogryposis multiplex congenita affecting the hands ,  feet ,  ankle ,  shoulders and / or neck ,  with camptodactyly of the fingers and limited knee and hip extension ,  associated with asymmetric ptosis and ,  less frequently ,  other ocular manifestations  ( e .g .
any osteogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem38b gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccdc114 gene .
microcephalic primordial dwarfism ,  alazami type is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  distinct dysmorphic facial features  ( i .e .
any brachydactyly type a1 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gdf5 gene .
autosomal dominant focal dystonia ,  dty25 is a form of focal dystonia ,  characterized by cervical ,  laryngeal and hand - forearm dystonia .
an autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of gatad2b on chromosome 1q21 .3 .
severe intellectual disability - progressive spastic diplegia syndrome is a rare condition that has been described in a few people with severe intellectual disability .
an alzheimer's disease that is characterized by an associated with mutations in the gene trem2 .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the klhl10 gene .
any colorectal cancer in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pole gene .
progressive external ophthalmoplegia - myopathy - emaciation syndrome is a rare mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder due to nuclear dna anomalies characterized by progressive external ophthalmoplegia without diplopia ,  cerebellar atrophy ,  proximal skeletal muscle weakness with generalized muscle wasting ,  profound emaciation ,  respiratory failure ,  spinal deformity and facial muscle weakness  ( manifesting with ptosis ,  dysphonia ,  dysphagia and nasal speech )  .
any autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the snx10 gene .
any left ventricular noncompaction in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mib1 gene .
microcephalic primordial dwarfism due to znf335 deficiency is characterized by severe antenatal microencephaly ,  simplified gyration ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  absence of basal ganglia  ( very rare )  ,  pontocerebellar atrophy and involvement of the white matter with secondary cerebral atrophy .
#64258 ; at nares ,  cupid's bow upper lip vermilion ,  and small ,  low - set ,  posteriorly rotated ears )  ,  in addition to cleft palate ,  conductive hearing loss ,  heart defects  ( atrial or ventricular septal defect )  and mild developmental delay / intellectual disability .
any cowden disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sdhd gene .
any cowden disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the klln gene .
any cowden disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pik3ca gene .
any cowden disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the akt1 gene .
any ochoa syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrig2 gene .
any isolated microphthalmia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the aldh1a3 gene .
any fatal infantile encephalocardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cox15 gene .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the agrn gene .
any lymphoproliferative syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cd27 gene .
facial dysmorphism - immunodeficiency - livedo - short stature syndrome is a rare genetic disease characterized by facial dysmorphism with malar hypoplasia and high forehead ,  immunodeficiency resulting in recurrent infections ,  impaired growth  ( with normal growth hormone production and response )  resulting in short stature ,  and livedo affecting face and extremities .
any microphthalmia ,  isolated ,  with coloboma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tenm3 gene .
any mitochondrial complex iii deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ttc19 gene .
any mitochondrial complex iii deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the uqcrb gene .
any mitochondrial complex iii deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the uqcrq gene .
any mitochondrial complex iii deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the uqcrc2 gene .
a cone - rod dystrophy that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 10q26 .
oculocutaneous albinism type 7  ( oca7 )  ,  formerly called oca5 ,  is a form of oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca )  characterized by skin and hair hypopigmentation ,  nystagmus and iris transillumination .
any muscular dystrophy - dystroglycanopathy ,  type a in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the b3galnt2 gene .
d , l - 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare inborn error of metabolism characterized by severe neonatal epileptic encephalopathy ,  episodes of apnea and respiratory distress ,  severe global developmental delay or absent psychomotor development ,  severe muscular hypotonia or absent voluntary movements ,  feeding difficulties and failure to thrive ,  absence of visual contact ,  abnormal brain morphology  ( including cerebral atrophy ,  ventriculomegaly and hypoplasia or dysplasia of the corpus callosum )  ,  mild dysmorphic features  ( frontal bossing ,  hypertelorism ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  flat nasal bridge )  ,  elevated csf and plasma lactate and urinary krebs cycle metabolites .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cryab gene .
autosomal dominant intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type f is a rare hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy disorder characterized by the typical cmt phenotype  ( slowly progressive distal muscle atrophy and weakness in upper and lower limbs ,  distal sensory loss in extremities ,  reduced or absent deep tendon reflexes and foot deformities )  with nerve biopsy demonstrating demyelinating and axonal changes and nerve conduction velocities varying from the demyelinating to axonal range .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crygb gene .
a dyskeratosis congenita that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of rtel1 on chromosome 20q13 .33 .
cobblestone lissencephaly without muscular or ocular involvement is a form of cobblestone lissencephaly characterized by a constellation of brain malformations which can either exist alone or in conjunction with minimal muscular and ocular abnormalities .
any inherited bleeding disorder ,  platelet - type in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the actn1 gene .
severe combined immunodeficiency due to card11 deficiency is a rare combined t and b cell immunodeficiency characterized by normal numbers of t and b lymphocytes ,  increased numbers of transitional b cells and hypo -  to agammaglobulinemia ,  decreased numbers of regulatory t cells and defects in t - cell functions .
any autosomal agammaglobulinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pik3r1 gene .
any congenital hydrocephalus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mpdz gene .
any osteogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wnt1 gene .
any smith - mccort dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rab33b gene .
any advanced sleep phase syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the csnk1d gene .
any mitochondrial complex deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atp5f1a gene .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in a mutation of slc1a1 on chromosome 9p24 .2 .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rbp3 gene .
steap3 / tsap6 - related sideroblastic anemia is a very rare severe non - syndromic hypochromic anemia ,  which is characterized by transfusion - dependent hypochromic ,  poorly regenerative anemia ,  iron overload ,  resembling non - syndromic sideroblastic anemia except for increased erythrocyte protoporphyrin levels .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lama4 gene .
this syndrome is characterised by microcephaly ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  phalangeal anomalies  ( cutaneous syndactyly of the fingers ,  toe brachyclinodactyly and nail hypoplasia )  and neurological manifestations  ( epilepsy ,  spastic / dystonic paraplegia and brisk reflexes )  .
congenital short bowel syndrome is a rare intestinal disorder of neonates of unknown etiology .
any nephrotic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the arhgdia gene .
any dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mypn gene .
any muscular dystrophy - dystroglycanopathy ,  type a in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pomk gene .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spry4 gene .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il17rd gene .
any dysequilibrium syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atp8a2 gene .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dusp6 gene .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fgf17 gene .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the flrt3 gene .
any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc4 gene .
a rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the ngly1 gene .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mip gene .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lim2 gene .
any cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kras gene .
any cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the map2k1 gene .
any cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the map2k2 gene .
any complex cortical dysplasia with other brain malformations in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kif5c gene .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4b3  ( cmt4b3 )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth type 4 characterized by a childhood onset of slowly progressing ,  demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy ,  focally folded myelin sheaths in nerve biopsy ,  reduced nerve conduction velocities  ( less than 38 m / s )  ,  and the typical cmt phenotype  ( i .e .
any myofibromatosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the notch3 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the drc1 gene .
any adams - oliver syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the eogt gene .
any proximal symphalangism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gdf5 gene .
any perrault syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lars2 gene .
oculocutaneous albinism type 5  ( oca5 )  is a type of oculocutaneous albinism found in one pakistani family to date ,  characterized by white skin ,  golden hair ,  photophobia ,  nystagmus ,  foveal hypoplasia and impaired visual acuity ,  that affects males and females equally ,  and that has been mapped to a locus on chromosome 4q24 but whose gene has not yet been discovered .
any craniosynostosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tcf12 gene .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2r  ( lgmd2r )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by the adolescent or early adulthood - onset of progressive proximal muscle weakness and mild facial muscle weakness ,  with patients becoming wheelchair bound in their fourth to fifth decade of life .
any dowling - degos disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pofut1 gene .
any fatal multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the iba57 gene .
any primary pulmonary hypertension in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the smad9 gene .
any primary pulmonary hypertension in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cav1 gene .
any primary pulmonary hypertension in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnk3 gene .
any central precocious puberty in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mkrn3 gene .
an autosomal recessive myopathy caused by mutations in the klhl40 gene ,  encoding kelch - like protein 40 .
any ehlers - danlos syndrome progeroid type in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the b3galt6 gene .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2t  ( lgmd2t )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy ,  that can present from birth to early childhood ,  characterized by hypotonia ,  microcephaly ,  mild proximal muscle weakness  ( leading to delayed walking and difficulty climbing stairs )  ,  mild intellectual disability and epilepsy .
any noonan syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rit1 gene .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2s  ( lgmd2s )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by childhood - onset of progressive proximal muscle weakness  ( leading to reduced ambulation )  with myalgia and fatigue ,  in addition to infantile hyperkinetic movements ,  truncal ataxia ,  and intellectual disability .
any leber congenital amaurosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gdf6 gene .
an autosomal dominant hypocalcemia disease that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the gna11 gene on chromosome 19p13 .
any neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ctsf gene .
estrogen resistance syndrome is a rare ,  genetic endocrine disease characterized by estrogen - receptor insensitivity to estrogens and the presence of elevated estrogen and gonadotropin serum levels .
fetal akinesia - cerebral and retinal hemorrhage syndrome is a rare ,  lethal ,  congenital myopathy syndrome characterized by decreased fetal movements and polyhydraminos in utero and the presence of akinesia ,  severe hypotonia with respiratory insufficiency ,  absent reflexes ,  joint contractures ,  skeletal abnormalities with thin ribs and bones ,  intracranial and retinal hemorrhages and decreased birth weight in the neonate .
an idiopathic generalized epilepsy characterized by onset of multiple seizure types in the first few years of life and associated with poor prognosis .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prdm16 gene .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rab28 gene .
autosomal recessive intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease type c is a rare subtype of autosomal recessive intermediate charcot - marie - tooth  ( cmt )  disease characterized by childhood to adulthood - onset of progressive ,  moderate to severe ,  predominantly distal ,  mostly lower limb muscle weakness and atrophy ,  foot deformities  ( including pes cavus and hammer toes )  ,  absent deep tendon reflexes and distal sensory loss associated with decreased motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities and features of both demyelinating and axonal neuropathy on sural nerve biopsy .
any familial atrial fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn1b gene .
any familial atrial fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn2b gene .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the anks6 gene .
spectrin - associated autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia is a rare ,  genetic neurological disease ,  due to sptbn2 mutations ,  characterized by global development delay in infancy ,  followed by childhood - onset gait ataxia with limb dysmetria and dysdiadochokinesia ,  mild to severe intellectual disability ,  development of cerebellar atrophy ,  and abnormal eye movements  ( including a convergent squint ,  hypometric saccades ,  jerky pursuit movements and incomplete range of movement )  .
infantile hypertrophic cardiomyopathy due to mrpl44 deficiency is a rare mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder with complex i and iv deficiency characterized by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  hepatic steatosis with elevated liver transaminases ,  exercise intolerance and muscle weakness .
any left ventricular noncompaction in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mybpc3 gene .
any meckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem231 gene .
intellectual disability - seizures - hypotonia - ophthalmologic - skeletal anomalies syndrome is a rare congenital disorder of glycosylation characterized by neonatal hypotonia ,  global development delay ,  developmental regress and severe to profound intellectual disability ,  infantile onset seizures that are initially associated with febrile episodes with subsequent transition to unprovoked seizures ,  impaired vision with esotropia and nystagmus ,  progressive cerebral and cerebellar atrophy ,  skeletal abnormalities  ( including brachycephaly ,  scoliosis ,  slender long bones ,  delayed bone age ,  pectus excavatum and osteopenia )  ,  inverted nipples and dysmorphic features including high and narrow forehead ,  frontal bossing ,  short nose ,  depressed nasal bridge ,  anteverted nares ,  high palate and wide open mouth consistent with facial hypotonia .
any paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pigt gene .
any epilepsy ,  familial adult myoclonic in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cntn2 gene .
any dyschromatosis universalis hereditaria in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abcb6 gene .
any complex cortical dysplasia with other brain malformations in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kif2a gene .
any complex cortical dysplasia with other brain malformations in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tubg1 gene .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nanos1 gene .
any autosomal recessive primary microcephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the phc1 gene .
any renal - hepatic - pancreatic dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nek8 gene .
an inherited condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the slc25a4 gene ,  encoding adp / atp translocase 1 .
any inclusion body myopathy with paget disease of bone and frontotemporal dementia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hnrnpa2b1 gene .
any inclusion body myopathy with paget disease of bone and frontotemporal dementia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hnrnpa1 gene .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hnrnpa1 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the elmod3 gene .
a communication disorder that involves the processing of linguistic information .
3q13 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from a partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 3 .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the arl2bp gene .
any familial thoracic aortic aneurysm and aortic dissection in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkg1 gene .
any age - related macular degeneration in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cfi gene .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the elac2 gene .
any catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trdn gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zmynd10 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the armc4 gene .
any mitochondrial complex iii deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cyc1 gene .
combined immunodeficiency due to malt1 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic form of primary immunodeficiency characterized by growth retardation ,  early recurrent pulmonary infections leading to bronchiectasis ,  inflammatory gastrointestinal disease ,  and other symptoms ,  such as rash ,  dermatitis ,  skin infections .
any mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fbxl4 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gnao1 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rsph1 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnaaf4 gene .
an age related macular degeneration associated with variation at or near the c2 and cfb genes on chromosome 6p21 .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trim2 gene .
early - onset progressive neurodegeneration - blindness - ataxia - spasticity syndrome is a genetic neurodegenerative disease characterized by normal early development followed by childhood onset optic atrophy with progressive vision loss and eventually blindness ,  followed by progressive neurological decline that typically includes cerebellar ataxia ,  nystagmus ,  dorsal column dysfunction  ( decreased vibration and position sense )  ,  spastic paraplegia and finally tetraparesis .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cfap298 gene .
a molybdenum cofactor deficiency that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the gphn gene on chromosome 14q23 .
an asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy that has material basis in compound heterozygous mutation in the wdr60 gene on chromosome 7q36 .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccdc65 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spag1 gene .
any hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gdf2 gene .
triosephosphate isomerase  ( tpi )  deficiency is a severe autosomal recessive inherited multisystem disorder of glycolytic metabolism characterized by hemolytic anemia and neurodegeneration .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the erbb4 gene .
developmental delay with autism spectrum disorder and gait instability is a rare ,  genetic ,  neurological disorder characterized by infant hypotonia and feeding difficulties ,  global development delay ,  mild to moderated intellectual disability ,  delayed independent ambulation ,  broad - based gait with arms upheld and flexed at the elbow with brisk walking or running ,  and limited language skills .
any hereditary hemochromatosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fth1 gene .
idiopathic cd4 lymphocytopenia  ( icl )  is a rare primary immunodeficiency disorder characterized by persistent cd4 t - cell lymphopenia  ( less than 300 cells / b5l on multiple occasions )  not associated with any other underlying primary or secondary immune deficiency .
any fuchs' endothelial dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the agbl1 gene .
syndromic microphthalmia - 12 is a rare disease characterized by bilateral small eyeballs  ( microphthalmia )  ,  lungs that are too small  ( pulmonary hypoplasia )  ,  and a defect or hole in the diaphragm that allows the abdominal contents to move into the chest cavity  ( diaphragmatic hernia )  .
any chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the traf3ip2 gene .
any parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnajc6 gene .
any craniosynostosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the alx4 gene .
any parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the synj1 gene .
a pigmentation disease characterized by lesions that initially arise as letiginous ,  hyperpigmented macules in a reticular pattern on the dorsal aspect of the hands and feet .
any ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  musculocontractural type in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dse gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the syne4 gene .
any periventricular nodular heterotopia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ermard gene .
any precursor b - cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pax5 gene .
any van maldergem syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fat4 gene .
hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 7  ( hsan7 )  is a genetic condition that causes the inability to feel pain ,  excessive sweating ,  and gastrointestinal issues .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpl15 gene .
any familial episodic pain syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn10a gene .
a rare ,  autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutation in the scn11a gene .
 ( 1p21 )  .
mammary polyadenomatosis is characterised by the presence in both breasts of multiple voluminous fibroadenomas with heterogeneous echo patterns .
familial hyperprolactinemia is a rare ,  genetic endocrine disorder characterized by persistently high prolactin serum levels  ( not associated with gestation ,  puerperium ,  drug intake or pituitary tumor )  in multiple affected family members .
any hypobetalipoproteinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the apob gene .
a rare ,  primary immunodeficiency .
any otofaciocervical syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pax1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nek2 gene .
any nephrotic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the coq8b gene .
any neuronopathy ,  distal hereditary motor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fbxo38 gene .
any common variable immunodeficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nfkb2 gene .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sfxn4 gene .
loeys - dietz syndrome - 5  ( lds5 )  ,  also known as rienhoff  ( pronounced reenhoff )  syndrome ,  is characterized by syndromic presentation of aortic aneurysms involving the thoracic and / or abdominal aorta ,  with risk of dissection and rupture .
any alzheimer disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the adam10 gene .
any age - related macular degeneration in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c9 gene .
severe combined immunodeficiency due to ikk2 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic form of primary immunodeficiency characterized by life - threatening bacterial ,  fungal and viral infections with the onset in infancy ,  and failure to thrive .
combined immunodeficiency due to ox40 deficiency is a rare combined t and b cell immunodeficiency characterized by susceptibility to develop an aggressive ,  childhood - onset ,  disseminated ,  cutaneous and systemic kaposi sarcoma .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lyrm4 gene .
stt3a - cdg is a form of congenital disorders of n - linked glycosylation characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  failure to thrive ,  hypotonia and seizures .
 ( 3p24 .1 )  .
keratosis ,  nagashima - type is a transgressive and nonprogressive palmoplantar keratoderma resembling a mild form of mal de meleda .
microcephaly - thin corpus callosum - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disability disease characterized by progressive postnatal microcephaly and global developmental delay ,  as well as moderate to profound intellectual disability ,  difficulty or inability to walk ,  pyramidal signs  ( including spasticity ,  hyperreflexia and extensor plantar response )  and thin corpus callosum revealed by brain imaging .
any fanconi syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ehhadh gene .
combined immunodeficiency due to cd3gamma deficiency is an extremely rare genetic combined primary immunodeficiency characterized by a selective partial lymphopenia  ( t +  /  - b + nk +  )  phenotype and decreased cd3 complex resulting in a variable but usually mild clinical presentation ranging from asymptomatic until adulthood to high susceptibility to infections from early infancy with predominant automimmune manifestations .
immunodeficiency - 18 is an autosomal recessive primary immunodeficiency characterized by onset in infancy or early childhood of recurrent infections .
any severe combined immunodeficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cd3d gene .
any pure hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the reep2 gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnc gene .
an asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the ift172 gene on chromosome 2p23 .
any hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 1 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atl3 gene .
an asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the wdr34 gene on chromosome 9q34 .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cspp1 gene .
macrocephaly - developmental delay syndrome is a rare ,  intellectual disability syndrome characterized by macrocephaly ,  mild dysmorphic features  ( frontal bossing ,  long face ,  hooded eye lids with small ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  broad nasal bridge ,  and prominent chin )  ,  global neurodevelopmental delay ,  behavioral abnormalities  ( e .g .
coasy protein - associated neurodegeneration  ( copan )  is a very rare ,  slowly progressive form of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  characterized by classic nbia features .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 5q31 .
an autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 2p21 - p12 .
15q11 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a rare partial autosomal monosomy with a variable phenotypic expression and reduced penetrance associated with an increased susceptibility to neuropsychiatric or neurodevelopmental disorders including delayed psychomotor development ,  speech delay ,  autism spectrum disorder ,  attention deficit - hyperactivity disorder ,  obsessive - compulsive disorder ,  epilepsy or seizures .
an extremely rare ,  complex type of hereditary spastic paraplegia ,  characterized by onset in infancy of pronounced leg spasticity  ( leading to the inability to walk independently )  ,  reduced visual acuity due to optic atrophy ,  and distal wasting of the hands and feet due to an axonal demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy .
any warburg micro syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tbc1d20 gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pde6d gene .
pde4d haploinsufficiency syndrome is a rare syndromic intellectual disability characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  low body mass index ,  long arms ,  fingers and toes ,  prominent nose and small chin .
proximal myopathy with extrapyramidal signs is a rare ,  hereditary non - dystrophic myopathy characterized by proximal muscle weakness ,  delayed motor development ,  learning difficulties ,  and progressive extrapyramidal motor signs including chorea ,  dystonia and tremor .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 62 is a pure or complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an onset in the first decade of life of spastic paraperesis  ( more prominent in lower than upper extremities )  and unsteady gait ,  as well as increased deep tendon reflexes ,  amyotrophy ,  cerebellar ataxia ,  and flexion contractures of the knees ,  in some .
an extremely rare and complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia  ( see this term )  ,  reported in only 4 patients from 2 families to date ,  characterized by spastic paraplegia  ( presenting between the ages of 1 to 4 years with abnormal gait )  associated with microcephaly ,  amyotrophy ,  cerebellar signs  ( e .g .
a rare ,  complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an onset in infancy of spastic paraplegia  ( presenting with the inability to walk unsupported and a scissors gait )  associated with a motor and sensory polyneuropathy with loss of terminal digits and acropathy .
an extremely rare and complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an onset in infancy of spastic paraplegia  ( presenting with delayed walking and a scissors gait )  associated with short stature ,  and normal cognition .
vasculitis due to ada2 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  systemic and rheumatologic disease due to adenosine deaminase - 2 inactivating mutations ,  combining variable features of autoinflammation ,  vasculitis ,  and a mild immunodeficiency .
any dowling - degos disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the poglut1 gene .
a temporal lobe epilepsy that has material basis in variation in the chromosome region 3q25 - q26 .
hereditary fibrosing poikiloderma - tendon contractures - myopathy - pulmonary fibrosis syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  hereditary poikiloderma syndrome characterized by early - onset poikiloderma  ( mainly on the face )  ,  hypotrichosis ,  hypohidrosis ,  muscle and tendon contractures with varus foot deformity ,  progressive proximal and distal muscle weakness in all extremities ,  and progressive pulmonary fibrosis .
any autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia - epilepsy - intellectual disability syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rubcn gene .
any alzheimer disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pld3 gene .
any hyperphosphatasia - intellectual disability syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pgap3 gene .
any renal agenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fgf20 gene .
optic atrophy - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  hereditary ,  syndromic intellectual disability characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  and significant visual impairment due to optic nerve atrophy ,  optic nerve hypoplasia or cerebral visual impairment .
any primary ovarian failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the stag3 gene .
any primary ovarian failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hfm1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc7a14 gene .
any pachyonychia congenita in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt6a gene .
any pachyonychia congenita in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt6b gene .
any nemaline myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the klhl41 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gabra1 gene .
any atrial standstill in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nppa gene .
moyamoya disease with early - onset achalasia is an exceedingly rare autosomal recessive neurological disorder reported only in a few families so far .
any complex cortical dysplasia with other brain malformations in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tubb2a gene .
any autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the stub1 gene .
any familial atrial fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nup155 gene .
any complex cortical dysplasia with other brain malformations in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tubb gene .
female infertility due to zona pellucida defect is a rare ,  genetic ,  female infertility disorder characterized by the presence of abnormal oocytes that lack a zona pellucida .
any desbuquois dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the xylt1 gene .
any congenital heart defects ,  multiple types in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nr2f2 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kiz gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pgap1 gene .
any non - syndromic pontocerebellar hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clp1 gene .
any seckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dna2 gene .
any non - syndromic pontocerebellar hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ampd2 gene .
any metabolic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dyrk1b gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the washc4 gene .
any mitochondrial complex iii deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the uqcc2 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the deaf1 gene .
any primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkaca gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the necap1 gene .
autism spectrum disorder due to auts2 deficiency is a rare genetic syndromic intellectual disability characterized by global developmental delay and borderline to severe intellectual disability ,  autism spectrum disorder with obsessive behavior ,  stereotypies ,  hyperactivity but frequently friendly and affable personality ,  feeding difficulties ,  short stature ,  muscular hypotonia ,  microcephaly ,  characteristic dysmorphic features  ( hypertelorism ,  high arched eyebrows ,  ptosis ,  deep and / or broad nasal bridge ,  broad / prominent nasal tip ,  short and / or upturned philtrum ,  narrow mouth ,  and micrognathia )  ,  and skeletal anomalies  ( kyphosis and / or scoliosis ,  arthrogryposis ,  slender habitus and extremities )  .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grxcr2 gene .
any mitochondrial complex iii deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lyrm7 gene .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the taf4b gene .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zmynd15 gene .
any aicardi - goutieres syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ifih1 gene .
postaxial polydactyly - anterior pituitary anomalies - facial dysmorphism syndrome is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized primarily by congenital hypopituitarism and / or postaxial polydactyly .
any non - syndromic pontocerebellar hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vps53 gene .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ttll5 gene .
any nephrotic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the emp2 gene .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep83 gene .
congenital chronic diarrhea with protein - losing enteropathy is a rare ,  genetic ,  intestinal disease characterized by early - onset ,  chronic ,  non - infectious ,  non - bloody ,  watery diarrhea associated with protein - losing enteropathy which results in hypoalbuminemia ,  hypogammaglobulinemia and elevated stool alpha - 1 - antitrypsin .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hcn1 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccno gene .
an autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of adnp on chromosome 20q13 .13 .
colobomatous microphthalmia - rhizomelic dysplasia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by a range of developmental eye anomalies  ( including anophthalmia ,  microphthalmia ,  colobomas ,  microcornea ,  corectopia ,  cataract )  and symmetric limb rhizomelia with short stature and contractures of large joints .
any progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tjp2 gene .
any tubular aggregate myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the orai1 gene .
any hypotrichosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rpl21 gene .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc24a4 gene .
bleeding disorder due to caldag - gefi deficiency is a rare hematologic disease due to defective platelet function and characterized by mucocutaneous bleeding starting in infancy  ( around 18 months of age )  ,  presenting with prolonged and severe epistaxis ,  hematomas and bleeding after tooth extraction .
familial median cleft of the upper and lower lips is a rare and isolated orofacial defect characterized by incomplete median clefts of both the lower lip  ( limited to the vermilion ,  with no muscle involvement )  and upper lip  ( with muscle involvement )  ,  double labial frenulum and fusion of the upper gingival and upper labial mucosa  ( resulting in a shallow upper vestibular fold )  ,  in addition to poor dental alignment ,  and increased interdental distance between the lower and upper median incisors .
any hypotrichosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt71 gene .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  due to ctps1 deficiency is a rare primary immunodeficiency disorder due to impaired capacity of activated t -  and b - cells to proliferate in response to antigen receptor - mediated activation characterized by early - onset ,  severe ,  persistent and / or recurrent viral infections due to epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  and varicella zoster virus  ( vzv )  ,   ( including generalized varicella )  ,  as well as recurrent sino - pulmonary bacterial infections due to encapsulated pathogens .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc13a5 gene .
any hereditary lymphedema in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vegfc gene .
any diamond - blackfan anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rps29 gene .
an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that has material basis in mutation in the chchd10 gene on chromosome 22 .
any familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the raf1 gene .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vars2 gene .
combined oxidative phosphorylation defect type 21 is a rare mitochondrial disease characterized by axial hypotonia with limb hypertonia ,  developmental delay ,  hyperlactatemia ,  central nervous system anomalies visible on magnetic resonance imaging  ( e .g .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prpf4 gene .
tall stature - scoliosis - macrodactyly of the great toes syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  overgrowth or tall stature syndrome with skeletal involvement characterized by early and proportional overgrowth ,  osteopenia ,  lumbar scoliosis ,  arachnodactyly of the hands and feet ,  macrodactyly of the hallux ,  coxa valga with epiphyseal dysplasia of the femoral capital epiphyses and susceptibility to slipped capital femoral epiphysis .
short stature due to ghsr deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  endocrine growth disease ,  resulting from growth hormone secretagogue receptor  ( ghsr )  deficiency ,  characterized by postnatal growth delay that results in short stature  ( less than  - 2 sd )  .
sting - associated vasculopathy with onset in infancy  ( savi )  is a rare ,  genetic autoinflammatory disorder ,  type i interferonopathy due to constitutive sting  ( stimulator of interferon genes )  activation ,  characterized by neonatal or infantile onset systemic inflammation and small vessel vasculopathy resulting in severe skin ,  pulmonary and joint lesions .
any pancreatic agenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ptf1a gene .
any megalencephaly - polymicrogyria - postaxial polydactyly - hydrocephalus syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the akt3 gene .
any megalencephaly - polymicrogyria - postaxial polydactyly - hydrocephalus syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccnd2 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mettl23 gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 37  ( sca37 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  ,  characterized by a cerebellar syndrome along with altered vertical eye movements .
any familial hyperlipidemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gpihbp1 gene .
orofaciodigital syndrome type 14 is a rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome ,  with autosomal recessive inheritance and c2cd3 mutations ,  characterized by severe microcephaly ,  trigonocephaly ,  severe intellectual disability and micropenis ,  in addition to oral ,  facial and digital malformations  ( gingival frenulae ,  lingual hamartomas ,  cleft / lobulated tongue ,  cleft palate ,  telecanthus ,  up - slanting palpebral fissures ,  microretrognathia ,  postaxial polydactyly of hands and duplication of hallux )  .
any cushing syndrome due to macronodular adrenal hyperplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the armc5 gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 38  ( sca38 )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 3 characterized by the adult - onset  ( average age: 40 years )  of truncal ataxia ,  gait disturbance and gaze - evoked nystagmus .
any autosomal recessive centronuclear myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the speg gene .
ataxia - intellectual disability - oculomotor apraxia - cerebellar cysts syndrome is a rare neuro - ophthalmological disease characterized by nonprogressive cerebellar ataxia ,  delayed motor and language development ,  and intellectual disability in addition to ophthalmological abnormalities  ( e .g .
short stature due to primary acid - labile subunit  ( als )  deficiency is characterized by moderate postnatal growth deficit ,  markedly low circulating levels of insulin - like growth factor 1  ( igf - 1 )  and insulin - like growth factor binding protein 3  ( igfbp - 3 )  ,  and hyperinsulinemia ,  in the absence of growth hormone  ( gh )  deficiency or gh insensitivity .
any vesicoureteral reflux in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnxb gene .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  due to dna - pkcs deficiency is an extremely rare type of scid characterized by the classical signs of scid  ( severe and recurrent infections ,  diarrhea ,  failure to thrive )  ,  absence of t and b lymphocytes ,  and cell sensitivity to ionizing radiation .
congenital deficiency in alpha - fetoprotein is a benign genetic condition characterized by a dramatically decreased level of alpha - fetoprotein in fetus or neonate .
hereditary persistence of alpha - fetoprotein is a benign genetic condition characterized by persistence of high alpha - fetoprotein  ( afp )  levels throughout life ,  with no associated clinical disability and thus no need for specific therapy
any nanophthalmia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmem98 gene .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the poc1b gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the eps8 gene .
autosomal dominant  ( ad )  mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to partial interferon gamma receptor 1  ( ifn - gammar1 )  deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a partial deficiency leading to impaired ifn - gamma immunity and ,  consequently ,  recurrent ,  moderately severe infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  and other environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fbxo31 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bbs2 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bbs5 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bbs7 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ttc8 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bbs9 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bbs10 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trim32 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bbs12 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mks1 gene .
a bardet - biedl syndrome that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the cep290 gene on chromosome 12q21 .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wdpcp gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sdccag8 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lztfl1 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bbip1 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ift27 gene .
an inherited autosomal dominant trait characterized by abnormally elevated levels of total serum thyroxine ;   ( t4 )  in euthyroid patients with abnormal serum albumin that binds t4 with enhanced affinity .
congenital analbuminemia  ( caa )  is characterized by the absence or dramatic reduction of circulating human serum albumin  ( hsa )  .
any isolated congenital breast hypoplasia / aplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ptprf gene .
any focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pax2 gene .
familial dysfibrinogenemia is a coagulation disorder characterized by a bleeding tendency due to a functional anomaly of circulating fibrinogen .
any hennekam syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fat4 gene .
any hyperphosphatasia - intellectual disability syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pigw gene .
any fanconi syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hnf4a gene .
any adams - oliver syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the notch1 gene .
nail and teeth abnormalities - marginal palmoplantar keratoderma - oral hyperpigmentation syndrome is a rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by short stature ,  nail dystrophy and / or nail loss ,  oral mucosa and / or tongue hyperpigmentation ,  dentition abnormalities  ( delayed teeth eruption ,  hypodontia ,  enamel hypoplasia )  ,  keratoderma on the margins of the palms and soles and focal hyperkeratosis on the dorsum of the hands and feet .
any hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fezf1 gene .
any focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the anln gene .
progressive encephalopathy with leukodystrophy due to decr deficiency is a rare mitochondrial disease ,  which presents with neonatal hypotonia ,  central nervous system abnormalities  ( ventriculomegaly ,  corpus callosum hypoplasia ,  cerebellar atrophy )  ,  acquired microcephaly ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay and intermittent lactic acidosis provoked by catabolic stress  ( e .g .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ccdc151 gene .
any neu - laxova syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the psat1 gene .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cox6a1 gene .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the syt2 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clic5 gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tbc1d24 gene .
a rare ,  genetic ,  mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder that may present with a wide range of symptoms  ( including muscular hypotonia ,  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  psychomotor delay ,  encephalopathy ,  peripheral neuropathy ,  lactic acidosis ,  3 - methylglutaconic aciduria )  and clinical syndromes  ( including narp and mils )  .
any autosomal recessive primary microcephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cenpe gene .
any autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ispd gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 40  ( sca40 )  is a very rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1 ,  characterized by the adult - onset of unsteady gait and dysarthria ,  followed by wide - based gait ,  gait ataxia ,  ocular dysmetria ,  intention tremor ,  scanning speech ,  hyperreflexia and dysdiadochokinesis .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnb1 gene .
any familial congenital mirror movements in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnal4 gene .
any neonatal inflammatory skin and bowel disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the egfr gene .
any intellectual disability - expressive aphasia - facial dysmorphism syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the setbp1 gene .
any autosomal recessive primary microcephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdk6 gene .
any pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the exosc8 gene .
any intellectual disability - expressive aphasia - facial dysmorphism syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zmynd11 gene .
congenital sideroblastic anemia  - b cell immunodeficiency -  periodic fever - developmental delay syndrome is a form of constitutional sideroblastic anemia ,  characterized by severe microcytic anemia ,  b - cell lymphopenia ,  panhypogammaglobulinemia and variable neurodegeneration .
any type 2 diabetes mellitus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tbc1d4 gene .
limb - girdle muscular dystrophy due to pomk deficiency is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy presenting in infancy with muscle weakness and delayed motor development  ( eventually learning to walk at 18 months of age )  followed by progressive proximal weakness ,  pseudohypertrophy of calf muscles ,  mild facial weakness ,  and borderline intelligence .
any primary immunodeficiency disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bcl10 gene .
woolly hair - palmoplantar keratoderma syndrome is a very rare ,  hereditary epidermal disorder characterized by hypotrichosis / woolly scalp hair ,  sparse body hair ,  eyelashes and eyebrows ,  leukonychia ,  and striate palmoplantar keratoderma  ( more severe on the soles than the palms )  ,  which progressively worsens with age .
a somatic mutation in the ctla4 gene resulting in only a single functional gene .
any generalized pustular psoriasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap1s3 gene .
any mitochondrial complex iii deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the uqcc3 gene .
any familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nlrc4 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ndst1 gene .
atrial conduction disorder is a form of heart disease in which the conduction of the cardiac atrium is disrupted
mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to complete isg15 deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by bacille calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  infections .
any autosomal recessive congenital cerebellar ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cwf19l1 gene .
any perrault syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the twnk gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grin2b gene .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rars gene .
catel - manzke syndrome is a rare bone disease characterized by bilateral hyperphalangy and clinodactyly of the index finger typically in association with pierre robin sequence comprising micrognathia ,  cleft palate and glossoptosis .
any vitelliform macular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the impg1 gene .
any vitelliform macular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the impg2 gene .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ighmbp2 gene .
pura - related severe neonatal hypotonia - seizures - encephalopathy syndrome due to a point mutation is a rare ,  genetic neurological disease ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  typically characterized by neonatal hypotonia ,  respiratory and feeding difficulties ,  global development delay  ( often with nonverbal and frequently non - ambulatory progression )  and myopathic facies .
any nemaline myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lmod3 gene .
any familial thoracic aortic aneurysm and aortic dissection in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mfap5 gene .
any microcephaly and chorioretinopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the plk4 gene .
any generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the stx1b gene .
any isolated hereditary giant platelet disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prkacg gene .
any progressive myoclonic epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnc1 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fmn2 gene .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gtpbp3 gene .
any polyglucosan body myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gyg1 gene .
a syndrome characterized by a unique combination of cardiac arrhythmias and intestinal pseudo - obstruction .
autosomal recessive congenital cerebellar ataxia due to grid2 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  slowly progressive neurodegenerative disease resulting from grid2 deficiency characterized by motor ,  speech and cognitive delay ,  hypotonia ,  truncal and appendicular ataxia ,  and eye movement abnormalities  ( tonic upgaze ,  nystagmus ,  oculomotor apraxia )  .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tuba4a gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wwox gene .
any microlissencephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the katnb1 gene .
any thrombocytopenia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the etv6 gene .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dcdc2 gene .
any congenital fibrosis of extraocular muscles in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col25a1 gene .
any focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crb2 gene .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the itgb6 gene .
a cause of obesity that results from inheritance of two copies of chromosome 14 from the mother ,  and no copy of chromosome 14 from the father .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the alg14 gene .
any congenital myasthenic syndromes with glycosylation defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the alg2 gene .
an osteogenesis imperfecta that has material basis in contiguous gene deletion on chromosome 11p11 .
any progressive myoclonic epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cers1 gene .
myopathy due to calsequestrin and serca1 protein overload is characterised by mild myopathy or elevated levels of creatine kinase in the blood without associated symptoms .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nars2 gene .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the calm1 gene .
any lethal congenital contracture syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zbtb42 gene .
any long qt syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the calm2 gene .
lethal fetal cerebrorenogenitourinary agenesis / hypoplasia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis malformation syndrome characterized by intrauterine growth restriction ,  flexion arthrogryposis of all joints ,  severe microcephaly ,  renal cystic dysplasia / agenesis / hypoplasia and complex malformations of the brain  ( cerebral and cerebellar hypoplasia ,  vermis ,  corpus callosum and / or occipital lobe agenesis ,  with or without arhinencephaly )  ,  as well as of the genitourinary tract  ( ureteral agenesis / hypoplasia ,  uterine hypoplasia and / or vaginal atresia )  ,  leading to fetal demise .
peeling skin syndrome  ( pss )  type a is a non inflammatory form of generalized pss ,  a type of ichthyosis ,  characterized by generalized white scaling and superficial painless peeling of the skin .
any oculomotor apraxia or related oculomotor disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pnkp gene .
any amelogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ambn gene .
any 3 - methylglutaconic aciduria in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the clpb gene .
any congenital bile acid synthesis defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the abcd3 gene .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the unc45b gene .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2u  ( cmt2u )  is a subtype of autosonal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 characterized by late adult - onset  ( 50 - 60 years of age )  of slowly progressive ,  axonal ,  peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy resulting in distal upper limb and proximal and distal lower limb muscle weakness and atrophy ,  in conjunction with distal ,  panmodal sensory impairment in upper and lower limbs .
autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia type 73  ( spg73 )  is a pure form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by adult onset of crural spastic paraparesis ,  hyperreflexia ,  extensor plantar responses ,  proximal muscle weakness ,  mild muscle atrophy ,  decreased vibration sensation at ankles ,  and mild urinary dysfunction .
any lethal congenital contracture syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cntnap1 gene .
any lethal congenital contracture syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the adcy6 gene .
any cole - carpenter syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sec24d gene .
any singleton - merten dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ddx58 gene .
an asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the cep120 gene on chromosome 5q23 .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrp4 gene .
any senior - loken syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wdr19 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dpp6 gene .
a congenital myasthenic syndrome characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of postsynaptic neuromuscular junction defects ,  early - onset progressive muscle weakness ,  and prolonged opening and activity of the acetylcholine receptor channel that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the chrnb1 gene on chromosome 17p13 .
a congenital myasthenic syndrome characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of postsynaptic neuromuscular junction defects ,  early - onset muscle weakness ,  and low amplitude of the miniature endplate potential and current that has material basis in ompound heterozygous mutation in the chrnb1 gene on chromosome 17p13 .
a congenital myasthenic syndrome characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of postsynaptic neuromuscular junction defects resulting in prolonged synaptic currents and early - onset progressive muscle weakness that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the chrnd gene on chromosome 2q37 .
a congenital myasthenic syndrome characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of postsynaptic neuromuscular junction defects resulting in rapid decay in endplate current and a failure to reach the threshold for depolarization and early onset progressive muscular weakness that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the chrnd gene on chromosome 2q37 .
a congenital myasthenic syndrome characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of postsynaptic neuromuscular junction defects ,  low amplitude of the miniature endplate potential and current ,  and early - onset muscle weakness that has material basis in compound heterozygous mutation in the chrnd gene on chromosome 2q37 .
a congenital myasthenic syndrome characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance of postsynaptic neuromuscular junction defects ,  early - onset progressive muscle weakness ,  and kinetic abnormalities of the achr channel that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the chrne gene on chromosome 17p13 .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the musk gene .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rapsn gene .
any maturity - onset diabetes of the young in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnj11 gene .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the snap25 gene .
any autosomal dominant robinow syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dvl1 gene .
any microcephaly and chorioretinopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tubgcp4 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the aars gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the osbpl2 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sik1 gene .
any primary immunodeficiency disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the irf7 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnm1 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col4a3bp gene .
any dyskeratosis congenita in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the parn gene .
any autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the snx14 gene .
an autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of ppp2r5d on chromosome 6p21 .1 .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the crym gene .
any hereditary late onset parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnajc13 gene .
intellectual disability - microcephaly - strabismus - behavioral abnormalities syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellecutal disability disorder characterized by craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  hypotonic facies ,  strabismus ,  long and flat malar region ,  posteriorly rotated ears ,  flat nasal bridge with broad nasal tip ,  short philtrum ,  thin vermillion border ,  open mouth with down - turned corners ,  high arched palate ,  pointed chin )  ,  global developmental delay ,  intellectual disability and variable neurobehavioral abnormalities  ( autism spectrum disorder ,  aggressivness ,  self injury )  .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcna2 gene .
a syndrome characterized by malar and mandibular hypoplasia ,  typically associated with abnormalities of the ears and eyelids ,  and with alopecia .
any fatal multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the isca2 gene .
any pulmonary fibrosis and / or bone marrow failure ,  telomere - related in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the parn gene .
any pulmonary fibrosis and / or bone marrow failure ,  telomere - related in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rtel1 gene .
a congenital stationary night blindness characterized by autosomal recessive inheritance that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the gnat1 gene on chromosome 3p21 .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the eef1a2 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ift172 gene .
any myoclonus - dystonia syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kctd17 gene .
any brugada syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnd3 gene .
any autosomal recessive primary microcephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sass6 gene .
brown syndrome is a rare eye disorder characterized by defects in eye movements caused by abnormalities of the superior oblique tendon sheath of the superior oblique muscle .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the eef1a2 gene .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 41 is a rare autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type iii disorder characterized by adult - onset progressive imbalance and loss of coordination associated with an ataxic gait .
any dystonic disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col6a3 gene .
any bilateral striopallidodentate calcinosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the xpr1 gene .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pycr2 gene .
any microphthalmia ,  isolated ,  with coloboma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rbp4 gene .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mars2 gene .
any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ube2t gene .
a temporal lobe epilepsy characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of focal seizures with prominent auditory symptoms and that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the reln gene on chromosome 7q22 .
an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that has material basis in mutation in the sqstm1 gene on chromosome 5q35 .
an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that has material basis in mutation in the tbk1 gene on chromosome 12q14 .
any chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the il17rc gene .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 74 is a rare ,  genetic ,  spastic paraplegia - optic atrophy - neuropathy - related  ( spoan - like )  disorder characterized by childhood onset of mild to moderate spastic paraparesis which manifests with gait impairment that very slowly progresses into late adulthood ,  hyperactive patellar reflex and bilateral extensor plantar response ,  in association with optic atrophy and typical symptoms of peripheral neuropathy ,  including reduced or absent ankle reflexes ,  lower limb atrophy and distal sensory impairment .
benta disease  ( b cell expansion with n f - n:b and t cell anergy )  is a very rare congenital immune deficiency disorder .
any zimmermann - laband syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atp6v1b2 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the edc3 gene .
a temporal lobe epilepsy characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of complex partial seizures with occasional secondary generalization and that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the gal gene on chromosome 11q13 .
any acrofacial dysostosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the polr1a gene .
any exudative vitreoretinopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the znf408 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the znf408 gene .
any ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col12a1 gene .
any bethlem myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col12a1 gene .
any progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial dna deletions in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rnaseh1 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rsph3 gene .
severe achondroplasia - developmental delay - acanthosis nigricans syndrome is characterised by the association of severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans .
any infantile liver failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nbas gene .
a hereditary sensory neuropathy characterized by congenital insensitivity to pain and decreased sweating and tear production that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the prdm12 gene on chromosome 9q34 .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kiaa0586 gene .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the naglu gene .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the polr1c gene .
any fatal infantile encephalocardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the coa5 gene .
any fatal infantile encephalocardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the coa6 gene .
any cone - rod dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dram2 gene .
any lethal congenital contracture syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the adgrg6 gene .
any hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type 6 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc25a46 gene .
any osteogenesis imperfecta in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sparc gene .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lss gene .
any maturity - onset diabetes of the young in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the appl1 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ripor2 gene .
any autosomal recessive emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lmna gene .
any achromatopsia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atf6 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myt1l gene .
any herpes simplex encephalitis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the irf3 gene .
any thyroid cancer ,  nonmedullary in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the foxe1 gene .
any thyroid cancer ,  nonmedullary in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the habp2 gene .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trmt5 gene .
any progressive myoclonic epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lmnb2 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hgsnat gene .
an asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the kiaa0586 gene on chromosome 14q23 .
a dyskeratosis congenita that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of acd on chromosome 16q22 .1 .
any noonan syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sos2 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bbs2 gene .
any noonan syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lztr1 gene .
any autosomal recessive spondylocostal dysostosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ripply2 gene .
any malignant glioma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pot1 gene .
any common variable immunodeficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nfkb1 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the champ1 gene .
any autosomal recessive complex spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the aldh18a1 gene .
any adams - oliver syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dll4 gene .
any craniosynostosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zic1 gene .
an autosomal dominant cutis laxa characterized by thin skin with visible veins and wrinkles ,  cataract or corneal clouding ,  clenched fingers ,  pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  moderate intellectual disability ,  and a combination of muscle hypotonia with brisk muscle reflexes that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the aldh18a1 gene on chromosome 10q24 .
14q32 duplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 14 that results in a predisposition to a number of adult - onset myeloproliferative neoplasms ,  including acute myeloid leukemia ,  chronic myelomonocytic leukemia ,  and myeloproliferative neoplasms ,  especially essential thrombocythemia .
ring chromosome 14 syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  retinal and skin pigmentation disorders ,  seizures ,  and dysmorphic features ,  including flat occiput ,  epicanthal folds ,  downward slanting eyes ,  flat nasal bridge ,  upturned nostrils ,  short neck ,  and large low set ears .
any autosomal recessive mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases due to a complete deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rorc gene .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hars gene .
any senior - loken syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the traf3ip1 gene .
any porokeratosis  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fdps gene .
progressive microcephaly - seizures - cortical blindness - developmental delay syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  neuro - ophthalmological syndrome characterized by post - natal ,  progressive microcephaly and early - onset seizures ,  associated with delayed global development ,  bilateral cortical visual impairment and moderate to severe intellectual disability .
primary immunodeficiency with post - measles - mumps - rubella vaccine viral infection is a rare primary immunodeficiency due to a defect in innate immunity disorder characterized by selective susceptibility to viral infections ,  particularly after systemic challenge with live viral vaccines ,  such as the measles ,  mumps and rubella  ( mmr )  vaccine .
early - onset lafora body disease is an extremely rare ,  inherited form of progressive myoclonic epilepsy characterized by progressive myoclonus epilepsy and lafora bodies ,  with an early onset  ( at around 5 years )  and a prolonged disease course .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc12a5 gene .
autosomal dominant optic atrophy plus syndrome  ( adoa plus )  is a variant of autosomal dominant optic atrophy  ( adoa )  associating the typical optic atrophy with other extra - ocular manifestations such as sensorineural deafness ,  myopathy ,  chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia ,  ataxia and peripheral neuropathy .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tctn2 gene .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spg11 gene .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cars2 gene .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mag gene .
seizures - scoliosis - macrocephaly syndrome is a rare ,  genetic neurometabolic disorder characterized by seizures ,  macrocephaly ,  delayed motor milestones ,  moderate intellectual disability ,  scoliosis with no exostoses ,  muscular hypotonia present since birth ,  as well as renal dysfunction .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vps11 gene .
surf1 - related charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4  ( cmt4k )  is a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4 characterized by childhood onset of severe ,  progressive ,  demyelinating sensorimotor neuropathy manifesting with distal muscle weakness and atrophy of hands and feet ,  distal sensory impairment  ( vibration and pinprick )  of lower limbs ,  lactic acidosis ,  areflexia and severely reduced motor nerve conduction velocities  ( 25 m / s or less )  .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vcp gene .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the morc2 gene .
any dehydrated hereditary stomatocytosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnn4 gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kitlg gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the met gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the homer2 gene .
any parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chchd2 gene .
any rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pex5 gene .
an autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the scyl1 gene on chromosome 11q13 .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col13a1 gene .
any tooth agenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lrp6 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gas8 gene .
palatal anomalies - widely spaced teeth - facial dysmorphism - developmental delay syndrome is a rare ,  genetic multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by global developmental delay ,  axial hypotonia ,  palate abnormalities  ( including cleft palate and / or high and narrow palate )  ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( including prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  wide nasal bridge ,  thin lips and widely spaced teeth )  ,  and short stature .
any familial nephrotic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nup107 gene .
any coenzyme q10 deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the coq7 gene .
any essential tremor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tenm4 gene .
any radio - ulnar synostosis - amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mecom gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hnmt gene .
any visceral heterotaxy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mmp21 gene .
spastic paraplegia - severe developmental delay - epilepsy syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  complex spastic paraplegia disorder characterized by an infantile - onset of psychomotor developmental delay with severe intellectual disability and poor speech acquisition ,  associated with seizures  ( mostly myoclonic )  ,  muscular hypotonia which may be noted at birth ,  and slowly progressive spasticity in the lower limbs leading to severe gait disturbances .
any woolly hair in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt25 gene .
any seckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the traip gene .
any cadasil in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the htra1 gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cep104 gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kiaa0556 gene .
any cleft lip / palate in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dlx4 gene .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc25a26 gene .
any hypotonia ,  infantile ,  with psychomotor retardation and characteristic facies in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the unc80 gene .
any wilms tumor in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rest gene .
any hyperphosphatasia - intellectual disability syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pigy gene .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the txn2 gene .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2x is a rare subtype of autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by atrioventricular block resulting in repeated syncope episodes ,  elevated creatine kinase serum levels and adult - onset of slowly progressive proximal limb skeletal muscle weakness and atrophy .
any preimplantation embryonic lethality in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tle6 gene .
severe hypotonia - psychomotor developmental delay - strabismus - cardiac septal defect syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - dystrophic congenital myopathy disorder characterized by a neonatal - onset of severe generalized hypotonia associated with mild psychomotor delay ,  congenital strabismus with abducens nerve palsy ,  and atrial and / or ventricular septal defects .
any microcephaly ,  short stature ,  and impaired glucose metabolism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ppp1r15b gene .
any iga glomerulonephritis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the spry2 gene .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2w is a subtype of autosomal recessive limb girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by childhood onset of severe ,  progressive ,  proximal skeletal muscle weakness and atrophy of the upper and lower limbs with later involvement of distal muscles and development of severe quadraparesis ,  calf hypertrophy ,  triangular tongue ,  and dilated cardiomyopathy .
any meier - gorlin syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gmnn gene .
any young - onset parkinson disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vps13c gene .
any brachydactyly type a1 in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bmpr1b gene .
any early - onset non - syndromic cataract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sipa1l3 gene .
any cowden disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sec23b gene .
any prenatal - onset spinal muscular atrophy with congenital bone fractures in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trip4 gene .
any prenatal - onset spinal muscular atrophy with congenital bone fractures in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ascc1 gene .
any secretory diarrhea in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc9a3 gene .
any hereditary neoplastic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ddx41 gene .
any syndrome with combined immunodeficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ikzf1 gene .
any leukodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hikeshi gene .
any advanced sleep phase syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the per3 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lman2l gene .
any familial nephrotic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nup93 gene .
any familial nephrotic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nup205 gene .
any robinow syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dvl3 gene .
any mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the opa1 gene .
15q14 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  short stature and facial dysmorphism .
tbck - related intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disability characterized by usually profound intellectual disability with absent speech ,  severe infantile hypotonia with decreased or absent reflexes ,  markedly slow motor development  ( with no progress beyond the ability to sit independently )  ,  early - onset epilepsy ,  strabismus and post - natal onset of progressive brain atrophy  ( incl .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 76 is a rare ,  complex hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by adult onset slowly progressive ,  mild to moderate lower limb spasticity and hyperreflexia ,  resulting in gait disturbances ,  commonly associated with upper limb hyperreflexia and dysarthria .
any immunodeficiency - centromeric instability - facial anomalies syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdca7 gene .
any immunodeficiency - centromeric instability - facial anomalies syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hells gene .
any inherited bleeding disorder ,  platelet - type in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slfn14 gene .
any striatal degeneration ,  autosomal dominant in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pde10a gene .
any charcot - marie - tooth disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nefh gene .
any coffin - siris syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the smarce1 gene .
any autosomal agammaglobulinemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tcf3 gene .
any nonphotosensitive trichothiodystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gtf2e2 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tbl1xr1 gene .
any primary ovarian failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ercc6 gene .
any primary ovarian failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the syce1 gene .
any autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vwa3b gene .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the syce1 gene .
any autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdc14a gene .
any autosomal recessive infantile hypercalcemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc34a1 gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mcm2 gene .
any autosomal dominant nonsyndromic deafness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cd164 gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gnb1 gene .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trmt10c gene .
any autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hivep2 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the frrs1l gene .
any polycystic kidney disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sec63 gene .
any autoimmune disease ,  multisystem ,  infantile - onset in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zap70 gene .
any spastic quadriplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the add3 gene .
any hypermanganesemia with dystonia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc39a14 gene .
a charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the mme gene on chromosome 3q25 .
spinocerebellar ataxia type 43 is a rare autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type i disorder characterized by late adult - onset of slowly progressive cerebellar ataxia ,  typically presenting with balance and gait disturbances ,  in association with axonal peripheral neuropathy resulting in reduced / absent deep tendon reflexes and sensory impairment .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the arv1 gene .
nek9 - related lethal skeletal dysplasia is a rare ,  lethal ,  primary bone dysplasia characterized by fetal akinesia ,  multiple contractures ,  shortening of all long bones ,  short ,  broad ribs ,  narrow chest and thorax ,  pulmonary hypoplasia and a protruding abdomen .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the agbl5 gene .
any congenital stationary night blindness in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gnb3 gene .
a rare developmental skin condition consisting of abnormal pilosebaceous follicle development .
any non - syndromic pontocerebellar hypoplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tsen15 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnik gene .
any distal myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the adssl1 gene .
duane syndrome type 3 is a disorder of eye movement .the affected eye ,  or eyes ,  has limited ability to move both inward toward the nose and outward toward the ears .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 77 is a rare ,  pure or complex hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an infancy to childhood onset of slowly progressive lower limb spasticity ,  delayed motor milestones ,  gait disturbances ,  hyperreflexia and various muscle abnormalities ,  including weakness ,  hypotonia ,  intention tremor and amyotrophy .
any hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the flnc gene .
any progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nr1h4 gene .
any hermansky - pudlak syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap3d1 gene .
any bone marrow failure syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnajc21 gene .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the samd9 gene ,  encoding sterile alpha motif domain - containing protein 9a .
any cold - induced sweating syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the klhl7 gene .
any familial juvenile hyperuricemic nephropathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sec61a1 gene .
any meier - gorlin syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdc45 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the guf1 gene .
any autosomal recessive progressive external ophthalmoplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tk2 gene .
adult - onset multiple mitochondrial dna deletion syndrome due to dguok deficiency is an extremely rare multiple mitochondrial dna deletion syndrome with markedly decreased deoxyguanosine kinase  ( dguok )  activity in skeletal muscle characterized by a highly variable phenotype .
autosomal recessive limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 2y  ( lgmd2y )  is a form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy ,  presenting in the first or second decades of life ,  characterized by slowly progressive proximal and distal muscle weakness and atrophy .
any tooth agenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wnt10b gene .
any nasopharyngeal carcinoma in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mst1r gene .
any benign familial infantile epilepsy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn8a gene .
an autosomal recessive sub - type of charcot - marie - tooth disease caused by compound heterozygous or homozygous mutation ( s )  in the mfn2 gene ,  encoding mitofusin - 2 .
any autosomal recessive primary microcephaly in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cit gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnajb13 gene .
any primary ciliary dyskinesia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ttc25 gene .
a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disability disease characterized by severe intrauterine and post - natal growth delay ,  moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  and neonatal - onset hepatopathy with fibrosis ,  steatosis ,  and / or cholestasis ,  occasionally leading to liver failure .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc1a2 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cacna1a gene .
any patterned macular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mapkapk3 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gabrb3 gene .
any myofibrillar myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ky gene .
any peeling skin syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the serpinb8 gene .
any epilepsy ,  familial focal ,  with variable foci in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nprl2 gene .
any epilepsy ,  familial focal ,  with variable foci in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nprl3 gene .
any bardet - biedl syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ift74 gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the b9d1 gene .
any joubert syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mks1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pomgnt1 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the zc3h14 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the uba5 gene .
any autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the uba5 gene .
any frontometaphyseal dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the map3k7 gene .
any isolated aniridia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the trim44 gene .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc5a7 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gabrb1 gene .
any mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tfam gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grin2d gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fgf12 gene .
any familial thoracic aortic aneurysm and aortic dissection in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lox gene .
any sotos syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the apc2 gene .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sun5 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mboat7 gene .
any lethal congenital contracture syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gldn gene .
any periventricular nodular heterotopia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nedd4l gene .
any visceral heterotaxy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pkd1l1 gene .
any azoospermia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the plcz1 gene .
any hereditary spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atp13a2 gene .
lethal left ventricular non - compaction - seizures - hypotonia - cataract - developmental delay syndrome is rare ,  genetic ,  neurometabolic disease characterized by global developmental delay ,  severe hypotonia ,  seizures ,  cataracts ,  cardiomyopathy  ( including left or bi - ventricular hypertrophy ,  dilated cardiomyopathy )  and left ventricular non - compaction ,  typically resulting in infantile or early - childhood death .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the poglut1 gene ,  encoding protein o - glucosyltransferase 1 .
any preimplantation embryonic lethality in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the padi6 gene .
any primary immunodeficiency disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bcl11b gene .
any myopia  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the p4ha2 gene .
any congenital myasthenic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc18a3 gene .
any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mad2l2 gene .
any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rad51 gene .
any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the xrcc2 gene .
any uncombable hair syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tgm3 gene .
any uncombable hair syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tchh gene .
any seckel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nsmce2 gene .
any lissencephaly  ( disease )  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tmtc3 gene .
any myofibrillar myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pyroxd1 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the elp2 gene .
any nephronophthisis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mapkbp1 gene .
any tooth agenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the grem2 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap3b2 gene .
any familial atrial fibrillation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myl4 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dennd5a gene .
any dystonic disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kmt2b gene .
atypical glycine encephalopathy is a rare form of glycine encephalopathy  ( ge )  presenting disease onset or clinical manifestations that differ from neonatal or infantile ge .
any autosomal recessive isolated optic atrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the yme1l1 gene .
any retinitis pigmentosa in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the reep6 gene .
any congenital bile acid synthesis defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the acox2 gene .
any anterior segment dysgenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cpamd8 gene .
any autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the casp14 gene .
any autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the impa1 gene .
congenital myopathy caused by pathogenic mutations in mypn that lead to a wide spectrum of phenotypes .
any ectodermal dysplasia syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kdf1 gene .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mdh2 gene .
any coats plus syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the stn1 gene .
a rare ,  autosomal dominant hereditary syndrome characterized by hypercalcemia ,  abnormally high levels of parathyroid hormone ,  and isolated hyperfunctioning parathyroid tumors .
the 48 , xxyy syndrome represents a chromosomal anomaly of the aneuploidic type characterized by the presence of an extra x and y chromosome in males .
extraneural perineurioma is a rare tumor of cranial and spinal nerves arising from peripheral nerve sheet and composed exclusively or predominantly of cells showing perineurial differentiation .
a who grade i perineurioma that arises within the endoneurium .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis ,  dutch type  ( hchwa - d )  is a form of hchwa ,  a group of familial central nervous system disorders ,  characterized by severe cerebral amyloid angiopathy  ( caa )  ,  hemorrhagic and non - hemorrhagic strokes and dementia .
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type a  ( lcha )  is a form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia that encompasses classical lissencephaly with thickened cortical gray matter with either no discernable gradient ,  a gradient with posterior predominance ,  or a gradient with anterior predominance ,  and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia .
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type b  ( lchb )  is a form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia characterized by subtle microcephaly ,  hypotonia and neurological and cognitive development delay .
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type c  ( lchc )  is a severe form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia characterized by severe microcephaly ,  cleft palate ,  and severe cerebellar and brainstem hypoplasia leading to neonatal death .
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type d  ( lchd )  is a form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia characterized by pronounced microcephaly  ( at least b1 3 sd )  ,  intellectual disability ,  spastic diplegia and moderate to severe cerebellar hypoplasia involving both vermis and hemispheres .
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type e  ( lche )  is a form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia ,  characterized by an abrupt transition from agyria to gyral simplification ,  near the boundary between frontal and parietal cortex ,  microcephaly  ( b1 3 sd )  and brainstem hypoplasia .
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type f  ( lchf )  is a severe form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia ,  characterized by a microcephaly of at least  -  3 sd and a thick cortex associated with complete absence of the corpus callosum .
a myelodysplastic syndrome defined by 5 - 9% blasts in the bone marrow ,  and  < 5% blasts in the blood .
a myelodysplastic syndrome defined by 10 - 19% blasts in the bone marrow or 5 - 19% blasts in the blood and  < 10% blasts in the bone marrow .
mu - heavy chain disease  ( mu - hcd )  is a type of hcd characterized by the production of incomplete monoclonal mu - heavy chains without associated light chains .
alpha - heavy chain disease  ( alpha - hcd )  is a type of hcd characterized by the production of incomplete monoclonal alpha - heavy chains without associated light chains .
gamma - heavy chain disease  ( gamma - hcd )  is a type of hcd characterized by the production of incomplete monoclonal gamma - heavy chains without associated light chains .
solitary necrotic tumor of the liver is a rare nonmalignant hepatic lesion characterized by a mass with a completely necrotic core often partially calcified ,  surrounded by a dense hyalinized fibrous capsule containing elastin fibers .
esophageal duplication cyst is a rare ,  congenital ,  non - syndromic esophageal malformation ,  most frequently located in the distal esophagus and usually diagnosed in childhood ,  characterized by tubular or spherical cystic masses that have a double layer of surrounding smooth muscle lined with squamous or enteric epithelium ,  are continuous or contiguous to the esophagus and may ,  or may not ,  communicate with the esophageal lumen .
tubular duplication of the esophagous is a rare congenital malformation where a second structure with individual lumen and stratified squamous mucosa and muscularis mucosa lies within or adjacent to the true esophagus causing dysphagia ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  retrosternal pain and respiratory problems  ( stridor and recurrent pneumonia )  and usually presenting in children .
primary interstitial lung disease specific to childhood due to pulmonary surfactant protein anomalies is a group of interstitial lung diseases  ( ild )  induced by genetic mutations disrupting surfactant function and gas exchange in the lung .
hereditary angioedema type 1  ( hae 1 )  is a form of hereditary angioedema characterized by acute edema in subcutaneous tissues ,  viscera and / or the upper airway .
hereditary angioedema type 2  ( hae 2 )  is a form of hereditary angioedema characterized by acute edema in subcutaneous tissues ,  viscera and / or the upper airway .
acquired angioedema type 2  ( aae2 )  is a type of acquired angioedema  ( aae )  characterized by acute edema in subcutaneous tissues ,  viscera and / or the upper airway .
acquired angioedema type 1  ( aae 1 )  is a type of acquired angioedema  ( aae )  characterized by acute edema in subcutaneous tissues ,  viscera and / or the upper airway .
renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system  ( raas )  - blocker induced angioedema  ( rae )  is a type of acquired angioedema  ( aae )  characterized by acute edema in subcutaneous tissues ,  viscera and / or the upper airway .
progressive non - fluent aphasia  ( pnfa )  is a form of frontotemporal dementia  ( ftd )  ,  characterized by agrammatism ,  laborious speech ,  alexia ,  and agraphia ,  frequently accompanied by apraxia of speech  ( aos )  .
mosaic trisomy 3 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with high phenotypic variability ranging from a mild phenotype presenting joint pain and laxity ,  mild facial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome  ( ntos )  is a form of thoracic outlet syndrome  ( tos )  that presents with pain ,  paresthesias and weakness in an upper extremity and is divided into true ntos and disputed ntos .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the stomach .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the duodenum .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the jejunum .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the ileum .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the appendix .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the colon .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the rectum .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the anal canal .
a benign or malignant neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the larynx .
a neuroendocrine neoplasm that involves the middle ear .
an extremely rare ,  aggressive ,  high - grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the liver .
a well differentiated ,  low or intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the gallbladder .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the thyroid gland .
a carcinoma arising from the thyroid gland .
any of the forms of tumor of parathyroid gland that have a rare incidence .
fraxf syndrome was originally identified in a family with developmental delay and an expanded ccg repeat at the folate - sensitive fraxf fragile site .
bathing suit ichthyosis  ( bsi )  is a rare variant of autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis  ( arci )  characterized by the presence of large dark scales in specific areas of the body .
autosomal dominant form of complex hereditary spastic paraplegia .
autosomal dominant form of pure hereditary spastic paraplegia .
autosomal recessive form of complex hereditary spastic paraplegia .
autosomal recessive form of pure hereditary spastic paraplegia .
any autosomal dominant complex spastic paraplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the aldh18a1 gene .
familial hypofibrinogenemia is a coagulation disorder characterized by mild bleeding symptoms following trauma or surgery due to a reduced plasma fibrinogen concentration .
pulmonary valve agenesis - tetralogy of fallot - absence of ductus arteriosus syndrome is a rare congenital heart malformation characterized by a tetralogy of fallot  ( pulmonary stenosis ,  overriding aorta ,  ventricular septal defect and right ventricular hypertrophy )  ,  complete absence or rudimentary pulmonary valve that is both stenotic and regurgitant and an absence of the ductus arteriosus .
porphyria cutanea tarda  ( pct )  is the most common form of chronic hepatic porphyria .
a form of eye disease that is both rare and inborn .
rare non - syndromic intellectual disability .
an instance of cardiac rhythm disease that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
any of the forms of pancreas disease that have a rare incidence .
rare biliary tract disease .
any of the forms of hepatobiliary neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
any of the forms of eye neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
rare diabetes mellitus .
rare lipid metabolism disorder .
rare thyroid disease .
a hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal glands fail to release adequate amounts of glucocorticoids  ( cortisol )  ,  mineralocorticoids  ( aldosterone ,  11 - deoxycorticosterone )  ,  and androgens  ( dehydroepiandrosterone )  to meet physiologic needs ,  despite release of acth from the pituitary .
chronic primary adrenal insufficiency  ( cpai )  is a chronic disorder of the adrenal cortex resulting in the inadequate production of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid hormones .
an instance of chronic primary adrenal insufficiency that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a broad classification of inherited disorders presenting at birth that affect both the cell - mediated and humoral aspects of the immune response .
a rare disorder characterized by recurrent infantile infections and absence of neutrophils in the peripheral blood .
fevers of unknown etiology recurring over months or years .
rare epilepsy .
early - onset autosomal dominant alzheimer disease  ( eoad )  is a progressive dementia with reduction of cognitive functions .
a disease that involves the medulla oblongata .
rare movement disorder .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the brain .
a hereditary spastic paraplegia that is part of a larger syndrome .
autosomal dominant form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy .
autosomal recessive form of limb - girdle muscular dystrophy .
rare syndromic intellectual disability .
acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes related to alkylating agent is a subgroup of therapy - related myeloid neoplasms  ( t - mn )  ,  associated with a treatment of an unrelated neoplastic or autoimmune disease with cytotoxic agents ,  like cyclophosphamid ,  platins ,  melphalan and others .
acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes related to topoisomerase type 2 inhibitor represent a subgroup of therapy - related myeloid neoplasms  ( t - mn )  ,  associated with treatment of an unrelated neoplastic disease with cytotoxic agents ,  like etoposid ,  doxorubicin ,  daunorubicin and others .
amniotic band syndrome  ( abs )  describes a group of sporadic congenital anomalies ,  that occur in association with amniotic bands ,  involving the limbs ,  craniofacial regions ,  spine and trunk with a highly variable clinical spectrum ranging from simple digital band constriction  ( or amputation )  to complex craniofacial ,  central nervous system and visceral anomalies .
arthrogryposis multiplex congenita  ( amc )  is a group of disorders characterized by congenital limb contractures .
this syndrome is characterised by chronic diarrhoea in infancy or childhood in association with intestinal glucoamylase deficiency .
congenital sodium diarrhea is characterized by severe watery diarrhea containing high concentrations of sodium ,  hyponatremia and metabolic acidosis .
congenital enterocyte heparan sulphate deficiency is characterised by massive enteric protein loss ,  secretory diarrhoea ,  and intolerance to enteral feeds during the first few weeks of life .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of severe congenital colitis with sensorineural deafness .
autoimmune pancreatitis  ( aip )  is a rare pancreatic disease characterized by chronic non - alcoholic pancreatitis that presents with abdominal pain ,  steatorrhea ,  obstructive jaundice and responds well to steroid therapy and is seen in two subforms: type 1 aip which affects elderly males ,  involves other organs and has increased immunoglobin g4  ( igg4 )  levels and type 2 aip which affects both sexes equally but presents at a younger age and has no other organ involvement or increased igg4 levels .
underterminate colitis designates a rare inflammatory bowel disease that clinically resembles crohnbs disease and ulcerative colitis but that cannot be diagnosed as one of them after examination of an intestinal resection specimen .
metaphyseal anadysplasia is a very rare form of metaphyseal dysplasia characterized by short stature ,  rhizomelic micromelia and a mild varus deformity of the legs evident from the first months of life ,  that is associated with radiological features of severe metaphyseal changes  ( irregularities ,  widening and marginal blurring )  in long bones ,  most prominent in proximal femurs ,  and generalized osteopenia ,  and that usually spontaneously resolves by the age of three years .
short bowel syndrome is an intestinal failure due to either a congenital defect ,  intestinal infarction or extensive surgical resection of the intestinal tract that results in a functional small intestine of less than 200cm in length and is characterized by diarrhea ,  nutrient malabsoption ,  bowel dilation and dysmobility .
rare intestinal neoplasm .
rare inflammatory bowel disease .
a metabolic disease that involves the intestine .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the small intestine .
hydrops fetalis is a severe and challenging fetal condition usually defined as the excessive accumulation of fetal fluid within the fetal extravascular compartments and body cavities that manifests as edema ,  pleural and pericardial effusion and ascites .
sideroblastic anemias  ( sa )  are a group of rare heterogeneous inherited or acquired bone marrow disorders ,  isolated or part of a syndrome ,  characterized by decreased hemoglobin synthesis ,  because of defective use of iron  ( although plasmatic iron levels may be normal or elevated )  and the presence of ringed sideroblasts in the bone marrow due to the pathologic iron overload in mitochondria as visualized by perls' staining .
atresia of the urethra is a rare congenital bladder outlet obstruction ,  a fetal lower urinary tract obstruction  ( fetal luto )  ,  that is usually fatal .
vein of galen aneurysm is a rare formof arteriovenous malformation in which the embryonic precursor to the vein of galen ,  a vein at the base of the brain ,  dilates causing too much blood to rush to the heart .
sinus of valsalva aneurysm  ( sva )  is a rare congenital heart malformation of one or more of the aortic sinuses ,  consisting of a dilation that when unruptured is usually asymptomatic but when ruptured presents with progressive exertional dyspnea ,  fatigue ,  chest pain and that can lead to congestive heart failure if left untreated .
aniridia  -  ptosis  -  intellectual disability  -  familial obesity is an extremely rare syndrome described in three members of a family  ( a mother and her two children )  that is characterized by the association of various ocular abnormalities  ( partial or complete aniridia ,  ptosis ,  pendular nystagmus ,  corneal pannus ,  persistent pupillary membrane ,  lenticular opacities ,  foveal hypoplasia ,  and low visual acuity )  with various systemic anomalies including intellectual disability and obesity in the two children ,  and alopecia ,  cardiac abnormalities ,  and frequent spontaneous abortion in the mother .
aniridia - intellectual disability syndrome is an extremely rare autosomal dominant developmental defect of the eye described in several members of one family that is characterized by the association of moderate intellectual disability with aniridia ,  lens dislocation ,  optic nerve hypoplasia and cataracts .
infection with roundworms of the genus anisakis .
ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum - imperforate anus syndrome is an extremely rare developmental defect during embryogenesis malformation syndrome characterized by bands of extensile tissue connecting the margins of the upper and lower eyelids ,  in association with anal atresia .
microlissencephaly describes a heterogenous group of a rare cortical malformations characterized by lissencephaly in combination with severe congenital microcephaly ,  presenting with spasticity ,  severe developmental delay ,  and seizures and with survival varying from days to years .
isolated lissencephaly type 1 without known genetic defects belongs to the genetically heterogeneous group ,  classic lissencephaly .
a esophageal malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a esophageal malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
a gastroduodenal malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a gastroduodenal malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
a intestinal malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a intestinal malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
a diaphragmatic or abdominal wall malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a diaphragmatic or abdominal wall malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
a developmental defect of the eye that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a developmental defect of the eye that is part of a larger syndrome .
a central nervous system malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a respiratory or mediastinal malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a respiratory or mediastinal malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
rare anemia .
any of the forms of poisoning that have a rare incidence .
pentasomy x is a sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of three extra x chromosomes in females  ( 49 , xxxxx instead of 46 , xx )  .
bardet - biedl syndrome  ( bbs )  is a ciliopathy with multisystem involvement .
anophthalmia - megalocornea - cardiopathy - skeletal anomalies syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome ,  reported in the offsprings of a consanguineous couple and characterized by multiple congenital skeletal  ( dolichocephaly ,  skull asymmetry ,  camptodactyly ,  clubfoot )  ,  muscular  ( muscle hypoplasia )  ,  ocular  ( anophthalmia ,  buphthalmos ,  retinal detachment ,  aniridia )  and cardiac  ( prolapse of tricuspid valves ,  mitral and tricuspid insufficiency )  abnormalities .
bartter syndrome is a group of rare renal tubular disease characterized by impaired salt reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of henle's loop and clinically by the association of hypokalemic alkalosis ,  hypercalciuria / nephrocalcinosis ,  increased levels of plasma renin and aldosterone ,  low blood pressure and vascular resistance to angiotensin ii .
caudal appendage - deafness syndrome is characterized by caudal appendage ,  short terminal phalanges ,  deafness ,  cryptorchidism ,  intellectual deficit ,  short stature and dysmorphism .
arachnodactyly  -  abnormal ossification  -  intellectual disability is a multiple congenital developmental anomalies syndrome characterized by arachnodactyly of fingers and toes associated with craniofacial dysmorphism  ( including abnormal cranial ossification ,  frontal bossing ,  flat calvaria ,  shallow deformed orbits resulting in exophtalmos ,  midface hypoplasia and micrognathia )  ,  feeding difficulties in infancy ,  infantile muscular hypotonia ,  and developmental delay leading to intellectual disability .
arachnodactyly - intellectual disability - dysmorphism syndrome is characterized by moderate intellectual deficit ,  brachycephaly ,  typical facies  ( thin lips and microstomia )  ,  ectomorphic habitus with extremely long ,  thin fingers and toes ,  and hypoplastic external genitalia .
congenital abnormalities of the aortic arch result from aberrant development of one or more components of the embyronic pharangeal arch system .
arrhinia is an extremely rare ,  major congenital malformation consisting of an absence of the nose ranging from hyporrhinia  ( absence of external nasal structures )  to total arrhinia  ( absence of external nose ,  nasal airways ,  olfactory bulbs ,  or olfactory nerve )  often causing respiratory distress and requiring surgical correction .
arhinia - choanal atresia - microphthalmia is a malformation disorder characterized by complete or incomplete absence of nose  ( arrhinia )  ,  choanal atresia ,  microphthalmia ,  anophthalmia and cleft or high palate .
digitotalar dysmorphism ,  also known as distal arthrogryposis type 1  ( da1 )  ,  is an autosomal dominant congenital anomaly characterized by contractures of the distal regions of the hands and feet with no facial involvement or any additional anomalies .
arthrogryposis - like syndrome ,  also known as kuskokwim disease ,  is a very rare congenital contracture disorder ,  reported exclusively in yup'ik eskimos of the kuskokwim river delta region of alaska ,  characterized by multiple contractures of large joints  ( predominantly the knees and ankles )  that present at birth or during childhood but are lifelong ;  deformities of the spine ,  pelvis and feet ;  and sometimes proximally or distally displaced patellae and muscle atrophy in the limbs with contractures .
allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis  ( abpa )  is a rare immunologic pulmonary disorder caused by hypersensitivity to aspergillus fumigatus ,  clinically manifesting with poorly controlled asthma and recurrent pulmonary infiltrates .
autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxias  ( arca )  are a heterogeneous group of rare neurological disorders involving both the central and peripheral nervous system  ( and in some cases other systems and organs )  ,  and characterized by degeneration or abnormal development of the cerebellum and spinal cord and ,  in most cases ,  early onset occurring before the age of 20 years .
rare intestinal disease .
a anorectal malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome  ( oms )  is a rare neuroinflammatory disease of paraneoplastic ,  parainfectious or idiopathic origin ,  characterized by opsoclonus ,  myoclonus ,  ataxia ,  and behavioral and sleep disorders .
ataxia - photosensitivity - short stature syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by cerebellar - like ataxia ,  photosensitivity  ( mainly of the face and trunk )  ,  short stature and intellectual disability .
a congenital heart defect characterized by the complete atresia of the mitral valve .
spinal atrophy - ophthalmoplegia - pyramidal syndrome is a rare ,  bulbospinal muscular atrophy characterized by generalized neonatal hypotonia ,  progressive pontobulbar and spinal palsy ,  pyramidal signs ,  and deafness .
a congenital aregenerative and often macrocytic anemia with erythroblastopenia .
an infectious disease caused by parasitic trematodes of the genus schistosoma that colonize human blood vessels and release eggs that can cause granulomatous reactions leading to acute  ( swimmer's itch or acute schistosomiasis syndrome )  or chronic disease .
brachydactyly - mesomelia - intellectual disability - heart defects syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  thin habitus with narrow shoulders ,  mesomelic shortness of the arms ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
bothriocephalosis is a mammalian cosmopolitan intestinal parasitosis .
pseudo - pelade of brocq is a rare hair abnormality characterized by onset in adulthood of soft ,  irregular ,  flesh - toned patches of alopecia primarily in the parietal and vertex portions of the scalp ,  without follicular hyperkeratosis or perifollicular inflammation .
brachyolmia is a rare ,  clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of bone disorders characterized by short trunk ,  mild short stature ,  scoliosis and generalized platyspondyly without significant abnormalities in the long bones .
a genetically heterogeneous condition characterized by complete or incomplete right bundle branch block accompanied by st elevation in leads v1 - v3 .
cryptogenic organizing pneumonia  ( cop )  is a form of idiopathic interstitial pneumonia characterized pathologically by organizing pneumonia  ( op )  that presents with non - specific flu - like symptoms ,  as well as cough and dyspnea and where no etiological agent is found .
bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome  ( bos )  is a lung disorder that is mainly associated with chronic allograft dysfunction after lung transplantation and that is characterized by inflammation and fibrosis of bronchiolar walls that reduce the diameter of the bronchioles and result in progressive and irreversible airflow obstruction .
feingold syndrome  ( fs )  ,  also known as oculo - digito - esophageal - duodenal  ( oded )  syndrome ,  is a rare inherited malformation syndrome characterized by microcephaly ,  short stature and numerous digital anomalies and is comprised of two subtypes: fs type 1  ( fs1 )  and fs type 2  ( fs2 )  .
medullary sponge kidney  ( msk )  is a birth defect of the tubules  -  tiny tubes inside the kidneys .
symmetrical thalamic calcifications are clinically distinguished by a low apgar score ,  spasticity or marked hypotonia ,  weak or absent cry ,  poor feeding ,  and facial diplegia or weakness .
butyrylcholinesterase  ( bche )  deficiency is a metabolic disorder characterised by prolonged apnoea after the use of certain anaesthetic drugs ,  including the muscle relaxants succinylcholine or mivacurium and other ester local anaesthetics .
idiopathic camptocormia is a postural disease characterized by an anterior flexion of the torso  ( during walking or standing )  that resolves in the supine position and that is caused by weakness of the lumbar paraspinal muscles  ( spinal extensors )  ,  due to massive fatty infiltrations of posterior spinal muscles ,  without an identifiable etiology .
camptodactyly - taurinuria syndrome is a congenital malformation syndrome characterized by the association of a permanent camptodactyly of the fingers with the over excretion of taurine in the urine .
complete atrioventricular canal  ( cavc )  ,  also referred to as complete atrioventricular septal defect ,  is characterized by an ostium primum atrial septal defect ,  a common atrioventricular valve and a variable deficiency of the ventricular septum inflow .
chronic beryllium disease  ( cbd )  is a granulomatous ,  interstitial lung disease that occurs in individuals who develop beryllium sensitization  ( bes )  ,  a cell - mediated immune response to environmental and occupational beryllium exposure .
partial atrioventricular canal  ( pavc )  is a congenital heart malformation characterized by an atrial septal defect  ( asd ;  ostium primum )  ,  clefts of mitral and occasionally tricuspid valves ,  two separate atrioventricular  ( av )  valve annuli and an intact ventricular septum .
a neuroendocrine carcinoma arising from the c - cells of the thyroid gland .
familial pancreatic carcinoma is defined by the presence of pancreatic cancer  ( pc )  in two or more first - degree relatives .
cardiofaciocutaneous  ( cfc )  syndrome is a rasopathy characterized by craniofacial dysmorphology ,  congenital heart disease ,  dermatological abnormalities  ( most commonly hyperkeratotic skin and sparse ,  curly hair )  ,  growth retardation and intellectual disability .
atrial standstill is a rare cardiac rhythm disease with a few familial and sporadic cases described to date that is characterized by a transient or permanent absence of electrical and mechanical atrial activity .
cardiomyopathy  -  cataract  -  hip spine disease describes the extremely rare triad of dilated cardiomyopathy ,  premature cataract ,  and articular disease of the hips and spine characterized by hip joint degeneration ,  irregular intervertebral disks ,  and platyspondyly .
maternally inherited cardiomyopathy and hearing loss is a mitochondrial disease described in two unrelated families to date that has a heterogeneous clinical presentation characterized by the association of progressive sensorineural hearing loss with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and ,  in the majority of cases ,  encephalomyopathy symptoms such as ataxia ,  slurred speech ,  progressive external opthalmoparesis  ( peo )  ,  muscle weakness ,  myalgia ,  and exercise intolerance .
heart - hand syndrome type 2 is an extremely rare heart - hand syndrome described in two families to date ,  that is characterized by upper limb malformations  ( brachytelephalangy type d ,  hypoplastic deltoids ,  mild shortening of the fourth and fifth metacarpals in some individuals ,  skeletal anomalies in the humerus ,  radius ,  ulnae ,  and thenar bones )  and cardiac arrhythmias  ( junctional rhythms and atrial fibrillation )  .
carney complex  ( cnc )  is characterized by spotty skin pigmentation ,  endocrine overactivity and myxomas .
congenital disorder of glycosylation  ( cdg )  is a fast growing group of inborn errors of metabolism characterized by defective activity of enzymes that participate in glycosylation  ( modification of proteins and other macromolecules by adding and processing of oligosaccharide side chains )  .
a superficial ,  epithelial herpesvirus hominis infection of the cornea ,  characterized by the presence of small vesicles which may break down and coalesce to form dendritic ulcers  ( keratitis ,  dendritic )  .
infectious epithelial keratitis is a rare ,  potentially sight - threatening ,  acquired ocular disease chracterized by corneal epithelium inflammation resulting from viral  ( mainly herpes simplex virus )  ,  bacterial ,  fungic or protist infection ,  manifesting with variable symptoms ,  such as conjunctival hyperemia ,  lacrimation ,  rapid onset of pain ,  blurred vision and / or photophobia ,  depending on the causative agent .
neurotrophic keratopathy is a rare degenerative disease of the cornea characterized by reduction or loss of corneal sensitivity that can be asymptomatic or present with red - eye and ,  during the early stages of the disease ,  a minor decrease in visual acuity .
herpes simplex  ( hsv )  stromal keratitis is an infectious ocular disease of either necrotizing or non - necrotizing form ,  due to an hsv infection ,  and characterized by corneal stromal necrosis ,  inflammation ,  ulceration and infiltration by leukocytes .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the endothelium .
segmental outgrowth - lipomatosis - arteriovenous malformation - epidermal nevus syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  polymalformative syndrome characterized by progressive ,  proportionate ,  asymmetric segmental overgrowth  ( with soft tissue hypertrophy and ballooning effect )  that develops and progresses rapidly in early childhood ,  arteriovenous and lymphatic vascular malformations ,  lipomatosis and linear epidermal nevus  ( arranged in whorls along the lines of blaschko )  .
nephrogenic systemic fibrosis  ( nsf )  is a rare systemic fibrosing condition observed in renally impaired patients and characterized by a hardening and thickening of the skin with fibrotic plaques or papules ,  pruritus ,  joint pain and stiffness ,  muscle weakness ,  limitation of range of motion ,  and yellowed eyes .
intractable diarrhea - choanal atresia - eye anomalies syndrome is characterised by the association of intractable diarrhoea of infancy with choanal atresia .
cardiac anomalies - heterotaxy syndrome is characterised by non - compaction of the ventricular myocardium ,  bradycardia ,  pulmonary valve stenosis ,  and secundum atrial septal defect .
cataract - microcornea syndrome is characterized by the association of congenital cataract and microcornea without any other systemic anomaly or dysmorphism .
cutaneous amyloidosis refers to a variety of skin diseases characterized histologically by the extracellular accumulation of amyloid deposits in the dermis .
primary localized cutaneous nodular amyloidosis  ( plcna )  is the most rare form of primary cutaneous amyloidosis ,  a skin disease characterized by the accumulation of amyloid deposits in the dermis ,  characterized clinically by yellowish waxy crusted nodules and papules on the face ,  lower extremities ,  trunk ,  scalp ,  and genitalia and histologically by the localized deposition of immunoglobulin - derived amyloid in the papillary dermis and subcutis .
macular amyloidosis  ( ma )  is a rare chronic form of cutaneous amyloidosis ,  a skin disease characterized by the accumulation of amyloid deposits in the dermis ,  clinically characterized by pruritic hyperkeratotic gray - brown macules that give a rippled or reticulated pattern of pigmentation usually in the upper back and extensor sites of arms ,  forearms and legs ,  and histologically by the deposition of amyloid in the upper dermis and close to the basal cell layer of the epidermis .
arachnoiditis  ( arc )  is a chronic inflammation of the arachnoid layer of the meninges ,  of which adhesive arachnoiditis is the most severe form ,  characterized by debilitating ,  intractable neurogenic back and limb pain and a range of other neurological problems .
rare endometriosis .
lemierre syndrome is a rare ,  potentially lethal ,  oropharyngeal infectious disease occurring in immunocompetent adolescents and young adults that is mainly due to fusobacterium necrophorum and that is characterized by septic thrombophlebitis of the internal jugular vein that leads to septic ,  usually pulmonary ,  embolism ,  associated with ent  ( ear ,  nose ,  and throat )  infection that manifests with fever ,  neck pain ,  and tonsillopharyngitis .
madras motor neuron disease  ( mmnd )  is characterized by weakness and atrophy of limbs ,  multiple lower cranial nerve palsies and sensorineural hearing loss .
laminopathy ,  type decaudain - vigouroux is characterised by severe metabolic alterations  ( insulin resistance or hyperinsulinaemia ,  hypertriglyceridaemia with low hdl - cholesterol ,  and altered glucose tolerance )  and muscular hypertrophy ,  myalgia ,  or weakness .
this syndrome is characterised by the presence of a unilateral angioma on the face and autistic developmental problems characterised by language delay and atypical social interactions .
unilateral choanal atresia is a ,  usually sporadic ,  congenital anomaly that is more commonly seen in females than in males  ( 2:1 )  ,  where the nose is blocked by bony or soft tissue formed during embryologic development on only one side  ( more commonly on the right side )  and which is characterized by nasal obstruction and rhinorrhea ,  usually presenting at birth but that may go undetected until a respiratory infection aggravates the condition .
bilateral choanal atresia is a congenital anomaly that is usually sporadic  ( but some familial cases have been reported )  ,  is more commonly seen in females than in males  ( 2:1 )  ,  and where the nose is blocked on both sides by bony or soft tissue formed during embryological development .
primary laryngeal lymphangioma is a rare ,  benign ,  congenital malformation of the lymphatic system characterized by a polypoidal ,  variable - sized ,  soft tissue mass located in the larynx .
neonatal brainstem dysfunction is a rare neurologic disease characterized by the association of suction - swallowing dysfunction ,  abnormal laryngeal sensitivity and motility  ( manifesting with dyspnea or obstructive apnea - hypopnea )  ,  gastroesophageal reflux  ( generally resistant to medication )  and cardiac vagal overactivity  ( e .g .
congenital laryngeal palsy is a rare larynx anomaly characterized by unilateral or bilateral paralysis of the vocal cords as a result of dysfunction of the motor nerve supply to the larynx .
cataract - intellectual disability - anal atresia - urinary defects syndrome is characterised by congenital cataracts with squint ,  intellectual deficit ,  anomalies of the genitourinary tract  ( rectovesical fistula ,  micropenis ,  undescended testis ,  and hypospadias )  ,  imperforate anus and other anomalies .
cataract - deafness - hypogonadism syndrome is an extremely rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome ,  described in only three brothers to date ,  that is characterized by the association of congenital cataract ,  sensorineural deafness ,  hypogonadism ,  mild intellectual deficit ,  hypertrichosis ,  and short stature .
this syndrome is characterized by night blindness ,  skeletal abnormalities  ( sloping shoulders ,  joint hyperextensibility ,  minor radiological anomalies )  and characteristic facies  ( periorbital anomalies ,  malar flatness ,  retrognathia )  .
any of the forms of bone development disease that have a rare incidence .
a group of rare genetic disorders which mimic physiological aging ,  making affected individuals appear to be older than they are .
a craniosynostosis that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a craniosynostosis that is part of a larger syndrome .
adrenomyeloneuropathy  ( amn )  is an adult form of the peroxisomal disease x - linked adrenoleukodystrophy  ( x - ald )  ,  characterized by spastic paraparesia and often associated with peripheral adrenal insufficiency in males .
dress syndrome  ( drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms )  is a hypersensitivity reaction characterized by a generalized skin rash ,  fever ,  eosinophilia ,  lymphocytosis and visceral involvement  ( hepatitis ,  nephritis ,  pneumonitis ,  pericarditis and myocarditis )  and ,  in some patients ,  reactivation of human herpes virus 6 .
congenital panfollicular nevus is a rare ,  benign ,  skin tumor disorder characterized by the presence of congenital ,  large  ( few centimeters )  ,  elevated ,  well - circumscribed ,  pink - tan ,  multinodular ,  non - ulcerative ,  bosselated - surface skin lesions located on the neck ,  scalp or hand and which enlarge with time .
acute transverse myelitis  ( atm )  is an inflammatory demyelinating disorder of the spinal cord that can be either idiopathic  ( iatm )  or secondary to a known cause  ( satm )  .
secondary acute transverse myelitis  ( atm )  is characterized by focal inflammation within the spinal cord due to a known cause ,  usually an inflammatory disease .
idiopathic acute transverse myelitis  ( atm )  is an immune - mediated inflammatory demyelinating disorder of the spinal cord with motor ,  sensory and autonomic involvement .
perioral myoclonia with absences is a rare epilepsy syndrome characterized by absence seizures with perioral myoclonia as the main seizure type ,  accompanied by generalized tonic - clonic seizures ,  appearing before or together with absences .
jeavons syndrome is an idiopathic generalized form of reflex epilepsy characterized by childhood onset ,  unique seizure manifestations ,  striking light sensitivity ,  and possible occurrence of generalized tonic - clonic seizures .
multicentric reticulohistiocytosis  ( mrh )  is a rare non - langerhans cell histiocytosis characterized by the association of specific nodular skin lesions and destructive arthritis .
leukoencephalopathy with bilateral anterior temporal lobe cysts is a nonprogressive neurological disorder marked by intellectual deficit ,  spasticity and motor retardation associated with characteristic mri findings of anterior bilateral temporal lobe cysts and multilobar leukoencephalopathy .
progressive cavitating leukoencephalopathy is characterized by acute episodes of neurological deficit  ( ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  seizures )  with irritability and opisthotonus followed by either steady deterioration or alternating periods of rapid progression and prolonged periods of stability .
17q11 .2 microduplication syndrome is characterized by dysmorphic features and intellectual deficit .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of sensorineural hearing impairment and peripheral neuropathy .
this syndrome is characterized by a sensory and autonomic axonal neuropathy ,  sensorineural hearing loss and persistent global developmental delay .
distal hereditary motor neuropathy type 7 is a rare ,  slowly progressive genetic peripheral neuropathy characterized by distal atrophy and weakness affecting the upper limbs  ( with a predilection for the thenar eminence )  and subsequently the lower limbs ,  associated with uni -  or bilateral vocal cord paresis leading to hoarse voice and breathing difficulties ,  and facial weakness .
the inherited predisposition toward getting a tumor .
a group of slowly progressive inherited disorders affecting motor and sensory peripheral nerves .
autosomal dominant form of distal hereditary motor neuropathy .
autosomal recessive form of distal hereditary motor neuropathy .
an instance of sensory peripheral neuropathy that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
autosomal dominant form of hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy .
autosomal recessive form of hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy .
charlie m syndrome is a rare bone developmental disorder which belongs to a group of oromandibular limb hypogenesis syndromes that includes hypoglossia - hypodactyly and glossopalatine ankylosis .
joubert syndrome  ( js )  and related disorders  ( jsrd )  are a group of developmental delay / multiple congenital anomaly syndromes in which the mandatory feature is the ``molar tooth sign''  ( mts )  ,  a complex midbrain - hindbrain malformation recognizable on brain imaging .
linear atrophoderma of moulin  ( lam )  is characterized by mildly atrophic and hyperpigmented band - like lesions that follow the lines of blaschko on the trunk or limbs .
this syndrome is characterized by congenital thrombocytopenia associated with the presence of large platelets .
two syndromes of oral ,  facial ,  and digital malformations .
cervical dermoid cyst is a rare ,  benign cutaneous neoplasm containing keratinized epithelium and dermal derivatives ,  such as hair follicles ,  sweat and sebaceous glands ,  smooth muscle or fibroadipose tissue which usually manifests as a slow - growing ,  painless mass in the submandibular or sublingual space .
facial dermoid cyst is a rare ,  benign cutaneous neoplasm containing keratinized epithelium and dermal derivatives ,  such as hair follicles ,  sweat and sebaceous glands ,  smooth muscle or fibroadipose tissue ,  which usually manifests as a firm ,  nonpulsatile mass ,  often with a sinus opening or a hair - bearing punctum ,  most commonly located in the periorbital and nasal area .
a cysts and fistulae of the face and oral cavity that involves the labial commissure .
a cysts and fistulae of the face and oral cavity that involves the lower lip .
digestive duplication cyst of the tongue is an extremely rare otorhinolaryngological malformation which occurs during early embryogenesis and is characterized by a single ,  and on occasion multiple ,  cystic lesion that is most frequently located in the anterior portion of the tongue ,  either deeply embedded within it or superficially on it .
epignathus is a very rare and life threatening intraoral teratoma ,  usually arising from the maxilla ,  mandible ,  palate or base of skull and invading the cranium ,  nasopharynx or oral cavity .
nasolacrimal duct cyst describes a unilateral or bilateral congenital cyst of the nasolacrimal duct ,  which is almost always associated with dacryocystocele ,  presenting most commonly at birth or a few weeks of age  ( but rarely presenting in adulthood )  as a benign ,  grayish blue mass in the inferomedial canthus or in the nasal cavity ,  that can cause epiphora ,  dacryocystitis  ( inflammation of the lacrimal sac )  and nasal obstruction .
polyrrhinia is an extremely rare ,  major congenital malformation characterized by complete duplication of the nose resulting in twofully developed noses often associated with choanal atresia ,  causing respiratory distress and necessitating surgical repair .
supernumerary nostril is an extremely rare congenital malformation characterized by the presence of one or more accessory nostrils ,  with or without accessory cartilage ,  located medially ,  above ,  below or laterally to the other nostrils .
proboscis lateralis  ( pl )  is a rare congenital facial abnormality characterized by failed development of the external nose on one side that is replaced by a tubular structure composed of skin and soft tissue usually attached at the inner canthus of the eye and therefore often associated with maldevelopment of the nasal cavity or paranasal sinuses of the affected side .
a teratoma that involves the nasopharynx .
nasal glial heterotopia is a rare developmental abnormality presenting usually at birth or in early childhood  ( rarely in adulthood )  as a benign ,  non - pulsatile mass that can lead to nasal obstruction ,  deformation of the septum and nasal bone ,  and respiratory distress if untreated .
nasal ganglioglioma is a rare tumor ,  presenting in newborns ,  containing both neuronal and astrocytic components and that can be endonasal ,  extranasal or both .
nasal encephalocele is an extracranial herniation of intracranial contents  ( that maintain a connection to the subarachnoid space )  into the fonticulus frontalis ,  presenting with nasal broadening and / or as a compressible ,  blue ,  pulsatile mass near the nasal bridge  ( that enlarges on crying or with jugular vein compression )  or as an intranasal mass originating in the cribiform plate and that can cause nasal obstruction or respiratory distress .
congenital laryngeal cyst is a rare larynx anomaly characterized by a cyst involving the larynx or supraglottis locations ,  such as the epiglottis and vallecula .
glossopalatine ankylosis is a disorder belonging to the group of oromandibular - limb hypogenesis syndromes  ( olhs )  and is characterised by the presence of an intraoral band of variable thickness attaching the tongue to the hard palate or maxillary alveolar ridge .
frontonasal arteriovenous malformation is a rare vascular anomaly characterized by abnormal communication between arteries and veins ,  bypassing the capillary bed ,  located in the frontonasal area .
maxillary arteriovenous malformation is a rare vascular anomaly characterized by an abnormal connection of the arterial and venous vasculature ,  without capillary connections ,  in the maxillofacial area ,  usually presenting with chronic ,  intermittent ,  and potentially life - threatening ,  hemorrhage .
mandibular arteriovenous malformation is a rare vascular anomaly characterized by an abnormal connection of the arterial and venous vasculature ,  without capillary connections ,  in the mandibular area ,  commonly presenting with minor gingival bleeding ,  dental loosening ,  lower lip numbness ,  facial deformity and malocclusion .
non - involuting congenital hemangioma  ( nich )  is a rare type of infantile hemangioma ,  which is a tumor that forms from the abnormal growth of blood vessels in the skin .
rapidly involuting congenital hemangiomas  ( rich )  are a distinctive type of congenital hemangioma that are fully formed in utero and differ from non - involuting congenital haemangiomas  ( nich )  mainly because they undergo rapid postnatal involution .
a disorder characterized by vascular malformations that encompasses a spectrum of phenotypic expression involving arteriovenous malformations  ( avms )  of the cerebral ,  orbital ,  and facial region .
isolated congenital syngnathia is a very rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by varying degrees of congenital fusion  ( ranging from simple mucosal adhesions to extensive bony fusion )  of mandible to maxilla that is not associated with any other malformations .
a congenital abnormality consisting of an opening or gap in the face ,  which results from incomplete fusion of one or more of the embryonic facial prominences .
median cleft of the upper lip and maxilla is a rare ,  congenital ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by a midline vertical cleft through the upper lip and premaillary bone  ( can also involve the nasal septum and central nervous system )  .
paramedian nasal cleft is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by a unilateral or bilateral coloboma of the nose ,  ranging in severity from a small notch ,  resulting in minor deviation of the nasal septum ,  to variable - sized clefts of the nasal ala which may be associated with small cysts or sinuses in the nasal midline .
midline cervical cleft  ( mcc )  is a rare congenital anomaly characterized by the presence at birth of a vertical ,  atrophic and usually erythematous skin defect ,  lacking adnexal elements in the midline of the neck that may be attached to a subcutaneous fibrous cord of variable length ;  a superior skin tag ;  and an inferior ,  short  ( usually about 1 cm in length )  sinus  ( possibly with presence of discharge )  .
cleft lip and alveolus is a fissure type embryopathy that involves the upper lip ,  nasal base and alveolar ridge in variable degrees .
orofaciodigital syndrome type 12 is a rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome ,  with sporadic occurrence ,  characterized by cardiac  ( septum hypertrophy )  and central nervous system abnormalities  ( myelomeningocele ,  sylvius aqueduct stenosis ,  corpus callosum agenesis ,  vermis hypoplasia )  ,  in addition to oral ,  facial and digital malformations  ( gingival frenulae ,  bifid tongue ,  supernumerary teeth ,  macrocephaly ,  hypertelorism ,  pre -  and post - axial polydactyly in hands ,  preaxial polydactyly in feet and club feet )  .
orofaciodigital syndrome type 13 is a rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome ,  with sporadic occurrence ,  characterized by cardiac  ( mitral and tricuspid valve dysplasia )  and neuropsychiatric manifestations  ( epilepsy ,  depression )  ,  in addition to oral ,  facial and digital malformations  ( lingual hamartomas ,  cleft lip ,  and brachydactyly ,  clinodactyly ,  syndactyly of hands and feet )  .
anaplastic thyroid carcinoma may represent the ultimate dedifferentiation step of thyroid tumorigenesis and is one of the most severe cancers in humans .
lethal recessive chondrodysplasia is an extremely rare lethal form of chondrodysplasia characterized by severe micromelic dwarfism ,  short and incurved limbs with normal hands and feet ,  facial dysmorphism  ( disproportionately large skull ,  frontal prominence ,  slightly flattened nasal bridge and short neck )  ,  muscular hypotonia ,  hyperlaxity of the extremities ,  and a narrow thorax .
desbuquois syndrome  ( dbqd )  is an osteochondrodysplasia characterized by severe micromelic dwarfism ,  facial dysmorphism ,  joint laxity with multiple dislocations ,  vertebral and metaphyseal abnormalities and advanced carpotarsal ossification .
paroxysmal dyskinesia  ( pd )  is a rare heterogenous group of movement disorders manifesting as abnormal involuntary movements that recur episodically and last only a brief time .
choroidal atrophy  -  alopecia is a very rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome ,  characterized by the association of choroidal atrophy  ( sometimes regional )  ,  together with other ectodermal dysplasia features including fine and sparse hair ,  absent or decreased lashes and eyebrows ,  and possibly mild visual loss and dysplastic / thick / grooved nails .
ring chromosome 10 syndrome is characterized by intellectual deficit ,  growth retardation ,  and various dysmorphic features .
ring chromosome 12 syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by postnatal growth retardation ,  variable degrees of developmental delay and intellectual disability ,  microcephaly and facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
ring chromosome 19 syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype that may range from normal to patients with profound intellectual disability ,  developmental delay ,  learning disability  ( esp .
ring chromosome 20 syndrome is marked by a characteristic seizure phenotype .
ring chromosome 22 is a rare condition caused by having an abnormal chromosome 22 that forms a ring .
gene expression cluster 4 as determined by recognition of outliers by sampling ends  ( rose )  in high - risk b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
gene expression cluster 6 as determined by recognition of outliers by sampling ends  ( rose )  in high - risk b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
gene expression cluster 7 as determined by recognition of outliers by sampling ends  ( rose )  in high - risk b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
chromosome 8 - derived supernumerary ring / marker is a rare chromosomal anomaly comprising variable parts of chromosome 8 .
autosomal dominant form of aorta coarctation .
middle aortic coarctation is a rare vascular anomaly characterized by the segmental narrowing of the abdominal and / or distal descending thoracic aorta with varying involvement of the visceral and renal arteries that commonly presents in children and young adults with early onset and refractory hypertension ,  abdominal angina ,  lower - limb claudication and that can lead to life - threatening complications associated with severe hypertension  ( i .e .
differentiated thyroid carcinoma  ( dtc )  ,  also known as papillary or follicular thyroid carcinoma ,  is a slow - growing malignancy usually presenting in adults as an asymptomatic thyroid mass .
isolated complex iii deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder characterized by a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from isolated myopathy or transient hepatopathy to severe multisystem disorder  ( that may include hypotonia ,  failure to thrive ,  psychomotor delay ,  cardiomyopathy ,  encephalopathy ,  renal tubulopathy ,  hearing impairment ,  lactic acidosis ,  hypoglycemia and other signs and symptoms )  .
criss cross heart  ( cch )  is a cardiac malformation where the inflow streams of the two ventricles cross due to twisting of the heart about its major axis .
a rare congenital abnormality of the heart characterized by the presence of three atria .
univentricular heart  ( uvh )  is a severe congenital cardiac malformation characterized by both atria related entirely or almost entirely to one functionally single ventricular chamber .
coffin - siris syndrome  ( css )  is a rare congenital multi - systemic genetic disorder characterized by aplasia or hypoplasia of the distal phalanx or nail of the fifth digit ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  coarse facial features ,  and other variable clinical manifestations .
cogan syndrome  ( cs )  is a rare autoimmune disorder of unknown origin characterized by inflammatory ocular disease  ( mainly interstitial keratitis )  and vestibulo - auditory manifestations  ( mainly acute onset hearing loss ,  tinnitus and vertigo )  ,  in the setting of a negative work - up for syphilis ,  with a variable risk of developing into a systemic disease .
multiple carboxylase deficiency  ( mcd )  is a term used to describe inborn errors of biotin metabolism characterized by reduced activities of biotin - dependent enzymes resulting in a wide spectrum of symptoms ,  including feeding difficulty ,  breathing difficulties ,  lethargy ,  seizures ,  skin rash ,  alopecia ,  and developmental delay .
inflammation of the conjunctiva in a newborn due to neisseria gonorrhoeae which was acquired during labor and delivery .
intellectual disability - hypoplastic corpus callosum - preauricular tag syndrome is characterised by a hypoplastic corpus callosum ,  microcephaly ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  preauricular skin tags ,  camptodactyly ,  growth retardation ,  and recurrent bronchopneumonia .
a carcinoma arising from the nasopharyngeal epithelium .
a rare ,  usually large  ( greater than 5cm )  ,  malignant epithelial tumor arising from the adrenal cortical cells .
short rib - polydactyly syndromes are a group of bone malformations characterized by a narrow thorax and polydactyly  ( usually preaxial )  .
craniodigital syndrome  -  intellectual deficit is characterised by syndactyly of the fingers and toes ,  characteristic facies  ( `startled' facial expression with a small pointed nose ,  micrognathia ,  long dark eyelashes and prominent eyebrows )  and intellectual deficit .
cranio - fronto - nasal dysplasia  -  poland anomaly is a polymalformative syndrome characterised by craniosynostosis ,  poland anomaly ,  cranio - fronto - nasal dysplasia ,  and genital and breast anomalies .
craniometaphyseal dysplasia  ( cmd )  is a very rare genetic bone disease characterized by progressive diffuse hyperostosis of cranial bones causing facial dysmorphism and functional repercussions ,  and metaphyseal widening of long bones .
cranio - osteoarthropathy  ( coa )  is a form of primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy characterized by delayed closure of the cranial sutures and fontanels ,  digital clubbing ,  arthropathy ,  and periostosis .
craniosynostosis ,  philadelphia type is a form of syndromic craniosynostosis ,  characterized by sagittal / dolichocephalic head shape with a relatively normal facial appearance and complete soft tissue syndactyly of hand and foot .
craniosynostosis is defined as the premature fusion of one or more cranial sutures leading to secondary distortion of skull shape resulting in skull deformities with a variable presentation .
familial isolated dilated cardiomyopathy is a rare ,  genetically heterogeneous cardiac disease characterized by dilatation leading to systolic and diastolic dysfunction of the left and / or right ventricles ,  causing heart failure or arrhythmia .
cryptorchidism - arachnodactyly - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by psychomotor delay ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  severe muscle hypoplasia  ( with absence of subcutaneous fatty tissue )  ,  generalized contractures ,  craniofacial dysmorphic features  ( dolichocephaly ,  esotropia ,  ears of unequal size ,  high palate )  ,  chest and spinal deformities  ( i .e .
intestinal infection with organisms of the genus cryptosporidium .
pinnae fistula or cyst is a rare otorhinolaryngological malformation characterized by the presence of a ,  usually unilateral ,  sinus tract or cyst located in the vicinity of the auricle  ( most frequently identified by a small pit near the anterior margin of the first ascending portion of the helix )  .
coloboma of superior eyelid is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by a typically unilateral ,  partial or full - thickness ,  variably sized defect of the superior eyelid ,  ranging from a small notch to complete absence of the entire lid ,  which is commonly triangular in shape  ( with base at eyelid margin )  and located on the medial third of the lid .
coloboma of inferior eyelid is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by a unilateral or bilateral ,  partial or full - thickness ,  variably sized defect of the inferior eyelid  ( ranging from a small notch to complete absence of the entire lid )  which is usually triangular in shape  ( with base at eyelid margin )  and located on the lateral third of the lid .
a hereditary disorder occurring in two forms: the complete form  ( franceschetti's syndrome )  is characterized by antimongoloid slant of the palpebral fissures ,  coloboma of the lower lid ,  micrognathia and hypoplasia of the zygomatic arches ,  and microtia .
cysticercosis is a parasitic infectious disease characterized by cyst formation in the target tissue of taenia solium  ( tapeworm )  parasite larvae ingested via the feces of a human with a tapeworm  ( human - to - human fecal - oral transmission )  leading to variable clinical manifestations in muscle ,  the brain ,  spinal cord ,  and eyes .
a degenerative ,  structural disorder of the eye ,  characterized by a cone - shaped protrusion of the cornea .
fatal infantile cytochrome c oxidase deficiency is a very rare mitochondrial disease characterized clinically by cardioencephalomyopathy resulting in death in infancy .
group of systemic vasculitis with a strong association with anca .
a dystonia  ( disease )  that is not part of a larger syndrome .
the presence of an excessively large tongue ,  which may be congenital or may develop as a result of a tumor or edema due to obstruction of lymphatic vessels ,  or it may occur in association with hyperpituitarism or acromegaly .
facial arteriovenous malformation is a rare vascular anomaly characterized by abnormal communication between arteries and veins ,  bypassing the capillary bed ,  located in the facial area .
rare genetic liver disease .
genetic biliary tract disease .
rare genetic respiratory system disease .
an instance of hypertension that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
a form of endocrine system disease that is both rare and inborn .
carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii  ( cpt ii )  deficiency is an inherited metabolic disorder that affects mitochondrial oxidation of long chain fatty acids  ( lcfa )  .
symbrachydactyly of hands and feet is a rare ,  non - syndromic limb reduction defect disorder characterized by unilateral or bilateral brachydactyly ,  cutaneous syndactyly and global hypoplasia of the hand and / or foot ,  with underlying muscles ,  tendons ,  ligaments and bones being affected but without other associated limb anomalies .
common variable immunodeficiency  ( cvid )  comprises a heterogeneous group of diseases characterized by a significant hypogammaglobulinemia of unknown cause ,  failure to produce specific antibodies after immunizations and susceptibility to bacterial infections ,  predominantly caused by encapsulated bacteria .
infantile bilateral striatal necrosis  ( ibsn )  comprises several syndromes of bilateral symmetric spongy degeneration of the caudate nucleaus ,  putamen and globus pallidus characterized by developmental regression ,  choreoathetosis and dystonia progressing to spastic quadriparesis .
a low - grade malignant blood vessel neoplasm .
hyperplastic polyposis syndrome is a rare ,  genetic intestinal disease characterized by the presence of multiple  ( usually large )  hyperplastic / serrated colorectal polyps ,  usually with a pancolonic distribution .
cold - induced sweating syndrome  ( ciss )  is characterized by profuse sweating  ( involving the chest ,  face ,  arms and trunk )  induced by cold ambient temperature .
a congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla .
paroxysmal hemicrania  ( ph )  is a primary headache disorder characterized by multiple attacks of unilateral pain that occur in association with cranial autonomic symptoms .
a headache disorder characterized by episodes of unilateral ,  short lasting pain and associated ipsilateral cranial autonomic symptoms .
group of disorders which feature accumulations of active histiocytes and lymphocytes ,  but where the histiocytes are not langerhans cells .
a benign histiocytic tumor that occurs during childhood ;  it is distinct from langerhans cell histiocytosis .
papular xanthoma is a form of non - langerhans cell histiocytosis characterized by cutaneous presentation of solitary or disseminated yellow to orange - brown papular or papulonodular ,  noncoalescent ,  asymptomatic skin lesions located predominantly on the head ,  neck ,  trunk and extremities  ( rarely on oral mucosa )  ,  in the presence of normolipidemia .
a cutaneous necrobiotic disorder characterized by firm ,  yellow plaques or nodules ,  often in a periorbital distribution .
a very rare dendritic cell tumor composed of spindle to ovoid cells with a phenotype that is similar to the langerhans cells .
progressive nodular histiocytosis is a rare ,  normolipemic ,  non - langerhans cell histiocytosis characterized by progressive growth of multiple to disseminated ,  asymptomatic skin lesions that range in appearance from yellow plaques to coalescence - prone red - brown papules ,  nodules and pedunculated tumors up to 5 cm in size ,  located typically on the face ,  trunk and extremities  ( and rarely on conjuctiva and mucous membranes )  .
hemophagocytic syndrome  ( hps )  is a rare immune disease and a potentially life - threatening disorder characterized by cytokine storm and overwhelming inflammation causing fever ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  cytopenia ,  hypertriglyceridemia ,  hyperferritinemia ,  and hemophagocytosis in bone marrow ,  liver ,  spleen or lymph nodes .
genetic hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis .
hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis due to infections ,  autoimmune disorders ,  or underlying malignancies .
a complication of rheumatic disease that is caused by excessive activation and uncontrolled proliferation of t lymphocytes and well - differentiated macrophages .
non - distal monosomy 10q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 10 ,  with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by developmental delays  ( usually of language and speech )  ,  variable cognitive impairment and neurobehavioral abnormalities such as autism spectrum disorders and attention deficit disorder .
genetic dementia .
a form of epidermolysis bullosa simplex in which blistering occurs above the basal keratinocytes .
a form of epidermolysis bullosa simplex in which blistering occurs within the basal keratinocytes .
acral dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa is a very rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  characterized by blistering confined primarily to the hands and feet .
dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ,  nails only is a rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  that shows no blistering and that is characterized by dystrophic or absent nails .
smouldering systemic mastocytosis is a type of systemic mastocytosis  ( sm )  .
10% )  in the bone marrow and / or blood ,  as well as other tissues such as the liver ,  peritoneum ,  spleen or bones .
distal monosomy 17q is a very rare chromosomal disorder of unknown prevalence characterized by multiple craniofacial  ( microcephaly and eye ,  ear ,  and nose deformities )  ,  limb and other multiple organ abnormalities ,  growth and motor retardation and intellectual deficit .
castleman disease  ( cd )  is a benign lymphoproliferative disorder that may present as a localized or multicentric form .
cap polyposis  ( cp )  is a rare colorectal disease characterized by multiple inflammatory polyps that predominantly affect the rectosigmoid area and that manifests primarily as rectal bleeding with abnormal transit ,  constipation and diarrhea .
2q24 microdeletion syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly consisting of a partial long arm deletion of chromosome 2 and characterized clinically by a wide range of manifestations  ( depending on the specific region deleted )  which can include seizures ,  microcephaly ,  dysmorphic features ,  cleft palate ,  eye abnormalities  ( coloboma ,  cataract and microphthalmia )  ,  growth retardation ,  failure to thrive ,  heart defects ,  limb anomalies ,  developmental delay and autism .
cataract - glaucoma syndrome is characterised by the association of total bilateral congenital cataract with the secondary occurrence of glaucoma appearing at ages varying between 10 and 40 years .
isolated congenital auditory ossicle malformation is a rare ,  congential ,  middle ear anomaly characterized by ,  usually unilateral and sporadic ,  variations in the number ,  size and / or configuration of the ossicles ,  with no tympanic membrane and external ear abnormalities and no history of trauma or infection .
 ( 5q35 .1 )  .various combinations of signs may result from deletions of variable extent depending on the genes comprised in the deleted segment .
subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus  ( scle )  is a form of cutaneous lupus erythematosus  ( cle )  that can present either as a non - scarring ,  annular photo - distributed dermatosis or psoriasiform plaques .
chronic cutaneous lupus erythematosus  ( ccle )  is a form of cutaneous lupus erythematosus  ( cle )  that includes five different forms: discoid lupus erythematosus  ( dle )  ,  chilblain lupus ,  hypertrophic or verrucous lupus erythematosus ,  lupus erythematosus tumidus ,  and lupus erythematosus panniculitis .
rare bacterial infectious disease .
rare viral disease .
any of the forms of parasitic infection that have a rare incidence .
rare fungal infectious disease .
hb bart's hydrops fetalis is the most severe form of alpha - thalassemia and is almost always lethal .
distal monosomy 7q36 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 7 ,  with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by holoprosencephaly ,  growth restriction ,  developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism  ( facial clefts ,  prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  low - set ears ,  flat and broad nasal bridge ,  large mouth )  ,  abnormal fingers and palm or sole creases ,  ocular abnormalities ,  and other congenital malformations  ( incl .
any of the forms of pregnancy disorder that have a rare incidence .
the 2p21 microdeletion syndrome consists of cystinuria ,  neonatal seizures ,  hypotonia ,  severe growthand developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism ,  and lactic acidemia .
febrile infection - related epilepsy syndrome  ( fires )  describes an explosive - onset ,  potentially fatal acute epileptic encephalopathy that develops in previously healthy children and adolescents following the onset of a non - specific febrile illness .
cryptogenic late - onset epileptic spasms is a rare epilepsy syndrome characterized by late - onset  ( after 1 year old )  epileptic spasms that ocurr in clusters ,  associated with tonic seizures ,  atypical absences and cognitive deterioration .
benign familial mesial temporal lobe epilepsy is a rare epilepsy characterized by seizures with viscerosensory or experential auras ,  onset in adolescence or early adulthood and good prognosis .
rolandic epilepsy - speech dyspraxia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic epilepsy characterized by speech disorder  ( including a range of symptoms from dysarthria ,  speech dyspraxia ,  receptive and expressive language delay / regression and acquired aphasia to subtle impairments of conversational speech )  and epilepsy  ( mostly focal and secondary generalized childhood - onset seizures ,  sometimes with aura )  .
limbic encephalitis represents a group of autoimmune conditions characterized by inflammation of the limbic system and other parts of the brain .the cardinal sign of limbic encephalitis is a severe impairment of short - term memory ;  however , symptoms may also include confusion ,  psychiatric symptoms ,  and seizures .the symptomstypically develop over a few weeks or months ,  but they may evolve over a few days .
a rare disorder characterized by degenerative changes in the limbic area of the brain .
classic paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis is a rare neuroimmunological disorder characterized by the sudden onset of seizures ,  progressive memory impairment  ( which may develop into dementia )  and psychiatric manifestations  ( e .g .
limbic encephalitis with lgi1 antibodies is a rare neuroimmunological disorder characterized by the onset of cognitive decline ,  psychiatric disturbances and seizures  ( distinctively faciobrachial dystonic seizures )  in association with detection of lgi1 antibodies in serum or cerebrospinal fluid .
posttransplant acute limbic encephalitis is a rare ,  acquired ,  non - paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis disorder ,  that develops in the setting of treatment - related immunosuppression ,  typically after allogeneic hemapoietic stem cell transplantation ,  characterized by onset of confusion ,  headache ,  anterograde amnesia ,  seizures and / or loss of consciousness 2 - 6 weeks following transplantation .
non - herpetic acute limbic encephalitis is a rare neuroinflammatory / neuroautoimmune disease characterized by an acute  ( or subacute )  onset of disturbance of consciousness  ( occasionally presenting as convulsions )  and high fever ,  associated with cerebral lesions  ( on magnetic resonance imaging )  that are restricted to the limbic system  ( particularly the hippocampi and amygdalae )  ,  in the absence of viral ,  bacterial ,  fungal ,  paraneoplastic and other disorders .
atopic keratoconjunctivitis is a rare and chronic allergic disease of the cornea and conjunctiva occurring in all age groups characterized by severe itching and burning sensation ,  conjunctival injection ,  photophobia and edema with serious cases leading to ulceration of the cornea which can result in blindness .
x - linked intellectual deficit ,  cilliers type is characterized by mild intellectual deficit associated with short stature ,  hypergonadotropic hypogonadism ,  microcephaly and mild facial dysmorphism  ( deep - set eyes ,  prominent supraorbital ridges ,  a high nasal bridge and large ears )  .
x - linked intellectual deficit ,  van esch type is characterized by mild to moderate intellectual deficit associated with low birth weight ,  short stature ,  microcephaly and variable hypergonadotropic hypogonadism .
distal monosomy 9p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 9 ,  with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by intellectual disability ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( trigonocephaly ,  upslanting palpebral fissures ,  hypoplastic supraorbital ridges )  ,  abnormal digits  ( long middle phalanges with short distal phalanges )  ,  as well as frequent association with genitourinary abnormalities  ( cryptorchidism ,  hypospadias ,  ambiguous genitalia ,  46 , xy testicular dysgenesis )  .
xp22 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a microdeletion syndrome resulting from a partial deletion of the chromosome x . phenotype is highly variable  ( depending on length of deletion )  ,  but is mainly characterized by x linked ichthyosis ,  mild - moderate intellectual deficit ,  kallmann syndrome ,  short stature ,  chondrodysplasia punctata and ocular albinism .
male sterility due to chromosome y deletion is characterized by a severe deficiency of spermatogenesis .
acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes related to radiation represent a subgroup of therapy - related myeloid neoplasms  ( t - mn )  ,  associated with treatment of an unrelated neoplastic disease with radiation .
familial advanced sleep - phase syndrome  ( fasps )  is a very rare circadian rhythm sleep disorder characterized by very early sleep onset and offset possibly resulting in emotional and physical disruptions .
an instance of aplastic anemia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
neutral lipid storage disease  ( nlsd )  refers to a group of diseases characterized by a deficit in the degradation of cytoplasmic triglycerides and their accumulation in cytoplasmic lipid vacuoles in most tissues of the body .
dent disease is a rare genetic renal tubular disease characterized by manifestations of proximal tubule dysfunction .
dentin dysplasia  ( dd )  is a rare disorder belonging to the group of hereditary dentin defects and is characterized by abnormal dentin structure and root development resulting in abnormal tooth development .
dermatitis herpetiformis  ( dh )  is a chronic autoimmune subepidermal bullous disease characterized by grouped pruritic lesions such as papules ,  urticarial plaques ,  erythema ,  and herpetiform vesiculae ,  with a predominantly symmetrical distribution on extensor surfaces of the elbows  ( 90% )  ,  knees  ( 30% )  ,  shoulders ,  buttocks ,  sacral region ,  and face of children and adults .
a urogenital tract malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a urogenital tract malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
cavitary myiasis is a rare parasitic disease characterized by the infestation of natural body cavities  ( e .g .
diazoxide - resistant diffuse hyperinsulism  ( drdh )  is a form of diazoxide resistant hyperinsulinism characterized by recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia caused by an excessive /  uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  due to diffuse involvement of pancreas that is unresponsive to medical treatment with diazoxide ,  often necessitating near total / total pancreatectomy .
an inherited degenerative disorder involving the peripheral nerves .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia due to collagen 9 anomaly is a rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by normal or mild short stature ,  early - onset pain and / or stiffness of the joints  ( mainly affecting knees but also elbows ,  wrists ,  ankles and fingers ,  with relative sparing of the hips )  and early degenerative joint disease .
type 2a von willebrand disease  ( type 2a vwd )  is a subtype of type 2 vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with a decrease in the affinity of the willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  for platelets and the subendothelium caused by a deficiency of high molecular weight vwf multimers .
type 2b von willebrand disease  ( type 2b vwd )  is a subtype of type 2 vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with an increase in the affinity of the willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  for platelets .
type 2m von willebrand disease  ( type 2m vwd )  is a subtype of type 2 vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with a decrease in the affinity of the willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  for platelets and the subendothelium in the absence of any deficiency of high molecular weight vwf multimers .
type 2n von willebrand disease  ( type 2n vwd )  is a subtype of type 2 vwd characterized by a bleeding disorder associated with a marked decrease in the affinity of the willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  for factor viii  ( fviii )  .
bazex syndrome is a rare paraneoplastic syndrome characterized by acral psoriasiform lesions .
a osteopoikilosis  ( disease )  that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a rare ,  congenital disorder of the eccrine sweat ducts that presents as grouped keratotic papules and plaques with a linear distribution and / or multiple punctate pits filled with tiny keratotic plugs resembling comedones .
infection with nematodes of the genus dirofilaria ,  usually in animals ,  especially dogs ,  but occasionally in humans .
benign partial epilepsy of infancy with complex partial seizures is a rare infantile epilepsy syndrome characterized by complex partial seizures presenting with motion arrest ,  decreased responsiveness ,  staring ,  automatisms and mild clonic movements ,  with or without apneas ,  normal interictal eeg and focal ,  mostly temporal discharges in ictal eeg .
benign partial epilepsy with secondarily generalized seizures in infancy is a rare infantile epilepsy syndrome characterized by seizures presenting with motion arrest and staring .
benign infantile seizures associated with mild gastroenteritis is a rare infantile epilepsy syndrome characterized by benign afebrile seizures in previously healthy infants and children  ( age range 1 month to 6 years )  with mild acute gastroenteritis without any central nervous system infection ,  severe dehydration ,  or electrolyte imbalances .
benign infantile focal epilepsy with midline spikes and waves during sleep is a rare infantile epilepsy syndrome characterized by age of onset between 4 and 30 months ,  partial sporadic seizures presenting with motion arrest ,  staring ,  cyanosis and ,  less common ,  automatisms and lateralizing signs ,  and characteristic interictal sleep eeg changes consisting of a spike followed by a bell - shaped slow wave in the midline region .
an epilepsy characterized by seizures triggered by visual stimuli that form patterns in space or time ,  such as flashing lights .
audiogenic seizures is a rare neurologic disease characterized by seizures that are triggered by acoustic stimulation ,  which can be simple  ( as in startle epilepsy )  or complex  ( e .g .
orgasm - induced seizures is a rare neurologic disease characterized by complex partial seizures with or without secondary generalization ,  or idiopathic primarily generalized epilepsy ,  triggered by sexual orgasm .
thinking seizures is a rare neurologic disease characterized by seizures induced by specific cognitive tasks ,  such as calculation or solving arithmetic problems  ( e .g sudoku puzzle )  ,  playing thinking games  ( e .g .
startle epilepsy is a rare neurologic disease characterized by frequent and spontaneous epileptic seizures  ( frequently with symmetrical or asymmetrical tonic features )  triggered by a normal startle in response to a sudden and unexpected somatosensory  ( most frequently auditory )  stimulus .
micturition - induced seizures is a rare neurologic disease characterized by tonic posturing or clonic movements triggered by micturition ,  with bilateral or unilateral involvement of the extremities and with or without loss of consciousness .
sporadic fetal brain disruption sequence is a rare ,  non - syndromic ,  central nervous system malformation disorder characterized by severe microcephaly  ( average occipitofrontal circumference  - 5 .8 sd )  ,  overlapping sutures ,  keel - like occipital bone prominence ,  scalp rugae with normal hair pattern and signs of neurological impairment .
a rare congenital abnormality in which the heart is located in the right side of the chest .
diencephalic syndrome  ( ds )  is a rare condition characterized by profound emaciation and failure to thrive  ( with normal caloric intake and normal linear growth )  ,  hyperalertness ,  hyperkinesias and euphoria ,  in the presence of hypothalamic tumors .
idiopathic pulmonary artery dilatation is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by the dilatation of the main pulmonary artery ,  with or without dilatation of the right and left pulmonary artery branches ,  and not attributed to any other cardiac ,  pulmonary and / or arterial wall disease .
scleromyxedema is a rare ,  severe skin disorder .
idiopathic dilatation of the right atrium  ( idra )  is a rare congenital heart malformation of unknown etiology that is characterized by an extremely dilated right atrium ,  and that is usually asymptomatic and fortuitously discovered by echocardiography or chest radiography ,  and can be sometimes associated with other anomalies such as atrial arrhythmias  ( e .g .
acute myeloid leukemias that do not fulfill the criteria for inclusion in the group of acute myeloid leukemias which have recurrent genetic abnormalities or myelodysplastic changes ,  or are therapy - related .
the hereditary dentin disorders ,  dentinogenesis imperfecta  ( dgi )  and dentin dysplasia  ( dd )  ,  comprise a group of conditions characterized by abnormal dentin structure affecting either the primary or both the primary and secondary dentitions .
diprosopus is a rare ,  life - threatening developmental defect during embryogenesis ,  and a subtype of conjoined twins ,  characterized by partial or complete duplication of the facial structures on a single head ,  neck ,  trunk and body .
any of the forms of heart neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( lincls )  are a genetically heterogeneous group of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( ncls )  typically characterized by onset during infancy or early childhood with decline of mental and motor capacities ,  epilepsy ,  and vision loss through retinal degeneration .
distomatosis is a group of parasitoses caused by flat worms that live in contact with epitheliums .
congenital cardiac diverticulum  ( ccd )  is a very rare congenital malformation characterized by a muscular appendix emerging from the left ventricular apex ,  rarely from the right ventricle or from both chambers ,  with clinical manifestations ranging from asymptomatic to life - threatening hemodynamic collapse .
meyer dysplasia of the femoral head is a mild localized form of skeletal dysplasia characterized by delayed ,  irregular ossification of femoral capital epiphysis .
rare pervasive developmental disorder .
childhood disintergrative disorder is a rare pervasive developmental disorder with a disease onset before the age of three and characterized by a dramatic loss of behavioral and developmental functioning after atleast two years of normal development .
primary peritoneal carcinoma  ( ppc )  is a rare malignant tumor of the peritoneal cavity of extra - ovarian origin ,  clinically and histologically similar to advanced - stage serous ovarian carcinoma .
myeloid / lymphoid neoplasm associated with pdgfra rearrangement is a rare ,  malignant ,  neoplastic disease characterized by clonal proliferation of myeloid and / or lymphoid precursors harboring rearrangements in the pdgfra gene ,  in the blood ,  bone marrow and often other tissues as well  ( spleen ,  lymph nodes ,  skin ,  etc . )  .
myeloid / lymphoid neoplasm associated with pdgfrb rearrangement is a rare ,  malignant ,  neoplastic disease characterized by clonal proliferation of myeloid and / or lymphoid precursors harboring rearrangements in the pdgfrb gene ,  in the blood ,  bone marrow and often other tissues as well  ( spleen ,  lymph nodes ,  skin ,  etc . )  .
hypereosinophilic syndrome  ( hes )  constitutes a rare and heterogeneous group of disorders ,  defined as persistent and marked blood eosinophilia and / or tissue eosinophilia associated with a wide range of clinical manifestations reflecting eosinophil - induced tissue / organ damage .
refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation  ( raeb - t )  is characterised by dysplastic features of the myeloid and usually erythroid progenitor cells in the bone marrow and an increased number of myeloblasts in the peripheral blood .
a melanoma  ( disease )  that involves the mucosa .
combined immunodeficiency  ( cid )  due to ca2 +  release activated ca2 +  ( crac )  channel dysfunction is a form of cid characterized by recurrent infections ,  autoimmunity ,  congenital myopathy and ectodermal dysplasia .
good syndrome ,  also known as thymoma - immunodeficiency ,  is a very rare acquired immunodeficiency syndrome characterized by the association of thymoma and combined b - cell and t - cell immunodeficiency of adult onset with increased susceptibility to infections .
a rare ,  primary humoral immunodeficiency of childhood characterized by decreasing serum levels of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  as maternal antibodies clear the circulation while serum levels of immunoglobulin a and immunoglobulin m remain normal or are slightly decreased .
a genetic deficiency of any membrane attack complex  ( mac ,  also known as terminal component complex  ( tcc )  )  component of the complement system  ( c5 ,  c6 ,  c7 ,  c8 ,  c9 )  .
a severe combined immunodeficiency that results from defective il7r expression causes t - b + nk +  scid .
autosomal recessive centronuclear myopathy  ( ar - cnm )  is an inherited neuromuscular disorder defined by numerous centrally placed nuclei on muscle biopsy and clinical features of a congenital myopathy .
non - distal trisomy 10q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 10 ,  characterized by mild to moderate developmental delay ,  postnatal growth retardation ,  central hypotonia ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
severe hemophilia b is a form of hemophilia b characterized by a large deficiency of factor ix leading to frequent spontaneous hemorrhage and abnormal bleeding as a result of minor injuries ,  or following surgery or tooth extraction .
moderately severe hemophilia b is a form of hemophilia b characterized by factor ix deficiency leading to abnormal bleeding as a result of minor injuries ,  or following surgery or tooth extraction .
mild hemophilia b is a form of hemophilia b characterized by a small deficiency of factor ix leading to abnormal bleeding as a result of minor injuries ,  or following surgery or tooth extraction .
mosaic trisomy 12 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  principally characterized by developmental or growth delay ,  short stature ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
severe hemophilia a is a form of hemophilia a characterized by a large deficiency of factor viii leading to frequent spontaneous hemorrhage and abnormal bleeding as a result of minor injuries ,  or following surgery or tooth extraction .
moderately severe hemophilia a is a form of hemophilia a characterized by factor viii deficiency leading to abnormal bleeding as a result of minor injuries ,  or following surgery or tooth extraction .
mild hemophilia a is a form of hemophilia a characterized by a small deficiency of factor viii leading to abnormal bleeding as a result of minor injuries ,  or following surgery or tooth extraction .
congenital vitamin k - dependent coagulation factors deficiency involving multiple coagulation factors .
trisomy 12p is an extremely rare chromosomal disorder  ( over 30 cases reported worldwide )  characterized by craniofacial malformations  ( round face ,  prominent cheeks ,  high bulging forehead ,  broad and flat nasal bridge ,  short nose with anteverted nostrils ,  long philtrum ,  prominent and everted lower lip ,  low - set ears ,  abnormally folded helix ,  protuberant antihelix )  ,  postnatal growth retardation ,  mental and psychomotor retardation ,  generalized hypotonia ,  abnormally short wide hands and / or other abnormalities .
non - distal trisomy 13q is a rare chromosomal anomaly disorder ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the proximal long arm of chromosome 13 ,  with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by increased polymorphonuclear leucocyte projections and persistence of fetal hemoglobin ,  as well as growth and developmental delay and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
mosaic trisomy 14 is a rare chromosomal disorder in which there are 3 copies  ( trisomy )  of chromosome 14 in some cells of the body ,  while other cells have the usual two copies .
mosaic trisomy 15 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome principally characterized by intrauterine growth restriction ,  congenital cardiac anomalies  ( incl .
mosaic trisomy 16 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype ranging from minor anomalies with normal development to intrauterine growth retardation ,  abnormal skin pigmentation ,  craniofacial and body asymmetry ,  cardiac  ( e .g .
mosaic trisomy 17 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  with a highly variable clinical presentation ,  mostly characterized by growth delay ,  intellectual disability ,  body asymmetry with leg length differentiation ,  scoliosis ,  and congenital heart anomalies  ( e .g .
high anorectal malformation is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic subtype of anorectal malformation ,  resulting from a developmental defect during embryogenesis ,  characterized by a wide spectrum of anorectal anomalies ,  with or without a rectourogenital fistula ,  located above the pubococcygeal line  ( i .e .
intermediate anorectal malformation is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic subtype of anorectal malformation ,  resulting from a developmental defect during embryogenesis ,  characterized by a wide spectrum of anorectal anomalies lying between the pubococcygeal line and the ischial tuberosity  ( e .g . ,  rectovestibular and rectovaginal fistulas in the female ,  rectobulbar fistula in the male ,  and anal agenesis )  .
low anorectal malformation is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic subtype of anorectal malformation ,  resulting from a developmental defect during embryogenesis ,  characterized by a wide spectrum of anorectal anomalies lying below the ischial tuberosity  ( e .g . ,  anovestibular fistula in female ,  perineal and anocutaneous fistulas ,  and anal stenosis )  .
rectal duplication is a rare congenital anorectal malformation characterized by an egg - like ,  cystic ,  mucus - filled mass ,  composed of intestinal mucosal lining and smooth muscle tissue .
severe congenital nemaline myopathy is a severe form of nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  characterized by severe hypotonia with little spontaneous movement in neonates .
intermediate nemaline myopathy is a type of nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  that shows features of typical nm in neonates with a more severe progression .
typical nemaline myopathy is a moderate neonatal form of nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  characterized by facial and skeletal muscle weakness and mild respiratory involvement .
childhood onset nemaline myopathy ,  or mild nemaline myopathy is a type of nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  characterized by distal muscle weakness ,  and sometimes slowness of muscle contraction .
adult - onset nemaline myopathy is a rapidly progressive type of nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  characterized by a very late onset .
trisomy 18p is an extremely rare chromosomal anomaly with a poorly defined clinical phenotype .
periventricular leukomalacia  ( pvl )  is a brain injury disorder characterized by the death of the white matter of the brain due to softening of the brain tissue .
idiopathic bilateral vestibulopathy is a rare otorhinolaryngologic disease characterized by dysfunction of both peripheral labyrinths or of the eighth nerves ,  which presents with persistent unsteadiness of gait  ( particularly in darkness ,  during eye closure or under impaired visual conditions ,  or when standing / walking on uneven ,  soft or wobbly ground )  and oscillopsia associated with head movements .
distal trisomy 19q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome characterized by low birth weight ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
microcephaly - polymicrogyria - corpus callosum agenesis syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  central nervous system malformation syndrome characterized by marked prenatal - onset microcephaly ,  severe motor delay with hypotonia ,  bilateral polymicrogyria ,  corpus callosum agenesis ,  ventricular dilation ,  small cerebellum and early lethality .
male infertility due to globozoospermia is a male infertility due to sperm disorder characterized by the presence ,  in sperm ,  of a large majority of round - headed spermatozoa that lack the acrosome and have an aberrant nuclear membrane and midpiece defects .
white sponge nevus  ( wsn )  is a rare and autosomal dominant genetic disease in which the oral mucosa is white or greyish ,  thickened ,  folded ,  and spongy .
deletion 6q16 syndrome is a prader - willi like syndrome characterized by obesity ,  hyperphagia ,  hypotonia ,  small hands and feet ,  eye / vision anomalies ,  and global developmental delay .
this syndrome associates gingival fibromatosis with dental abnormalities including generalized thin hypoplastic amelogenesis imperfecta ,  intrapulpal calcifications ,  and delay of tooth eruption .
capra - demarco syndrome is characterized by sagittal craniosynostosis ,  hydrocephalus ,  chiari i malformation and radioulnar synostosis .
this syndrome is characterized by severe intellectual deficit ,  kyphosis with onset in childhood and cataract with onset in late adolescence .
cap myopathy is a very rare congenital myopathy presenting a weakness of facial and respiratory muscles associated with craniofacial and thoracic deformities ,  as well as weakness of limb proximal and distal muscles .
myopathy with hexagonally cross - linked tubular arrays is a rare ,  congenital ,  non - dystrophic ,  mild ,  slowly progressive ,  proximal myopathy characterized by exercise intolerance and post - exercise myalgia without rhabdomyolysis ,  associated with highly organized hexagonally cross - linked tubular arrays in skeletal muscle biopsy .
the most common type of non - hodgkin lymphoma .
a non - hodgkin lymphoma of t - cell lineage .
trisomy 10p is a syndrome of mental retardation / multiple congenital malformations  ( mr - mca )  that is caused by the total or partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 10 .
progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis  ( pfic )  refers to a heterogeneous group of autosomal recessive disorders of childhood that disrupt bile formation and present with cholestasis of hepatocellular origin .
mosaic trisomy 2 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  principally characterized by intrauterine growth restriction ,  growth and motor delay ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
mosaic trisomy 20 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype ranging from normal  ( in the majority of cases )  to a mild ,  subtle phenotype principally characterized by spinal abnormalities  ( i .e .
cholera is an infectious disease ,  caused by intestinal infection with vibrio cholerae ,  characterized by massive watery diarrhea and severe dehydration that can lead to shock and death if left untreated .
trisomy 4p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 4 ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  typically characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth delay ,  psychomotor developmental delay and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  prominent glabelle ,  hypertelorism ,  enlarged ears with abnormal helix and antihelix ,  bulbous nose with flat or depressed nasal bridge ,  long philtrum ,  retrognathia with pointed chin )  .
trisomy 5p is a chromosomal abnormality resulting from the duplication of a segment of variable size of the short arm of chromosome 5 ,  which usually involves the distal band 5p15 .
distal trisomy of the short arm of chromosome 6 is characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  a pattern of specific facial features  ( mostly of the eyes )  ,  microcephaly ,  and developmental delay .
congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism  ( chh )  is a rare disorder of sexual maturation characterized by gonadotropin  ( gn )  deficiency with low sex steroid levels associated with low levels of follicle stimulating hormone  ( fsh )  and luteinizing hormone  ( lh )  .
mosaic trisomy 7 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  mostly characterized by blaschkolinear skin pigmentary dysplasia ,  body asymmetry ,  enamel dysplasia ,  and developmental and growth delay .
trisomy 8q is a very rare disorder characterized by duplication of the long arm of chromosome 8 .
fibular dimelia - diplopodia syndrome is a rare developmental anomaly .
thoraco - abdominal enteric duplication is a rare ,  syndromic intestinal malformation characterized by single or multiple smooth - walled ,  often tubular ,  cystic lesions ,  which on occasion contain ectopic gastric mucosa ,  located in the thorax  ( usually in the posterior mediastinum and to the right of the midline )  and in the abdomen .
nonrhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata is a form of chondrodysplasia punctata ,  a group of diseases in which the common characteristic is bone calcifications near joints from birth .
rhizomelic chondrodysplasia is a form chondrodysplasia punctata ,  a group of diseases in which the common characteristic is calcifications near joints at birth .
a hypothyroidism that occurs in an adult .
a hypothyroidism that is part of a larger syndrome .
45 , x / 46 , xy mixed gonadal dysgenesis  ( 45 , x / 46 , xy mgd )  is a disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  associated with a numerical sex chromosome abnormality resulting from y - chromosome mosaicism and leading to abnormal gonadal development .
dyskeratosis congenita  ( dc )  is a rare ectodermal dysplasia that often presents with the classic triad of nail dysplasia ,  skin pigmentary changes ,  and oral leukoplakia associated with a high risk of bone marrow failure  ( bmf )  and cancer .
facial dysmorphism - shawl scrotum - joint laxity syndrome is characterised by facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism ,  telecanthus ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  ptosis ,  malar hypoplasia ,  broad nasal bridge ,  thin upper lip ,  smooth philtrum ,  and low - set prominent ears )  and associated with joint anomalies  ( genu valgum or cubitus valgus ,  hyper - extensible joints ,  etc . )  .
dysmorphism - cleft palate - loose skin syndrome is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by severe psychomotor delay ,  intellectual disability ,  congential ,  symmetrical circumferential skin creases of arms and legs ,  cleft palate ,  and facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
a form of hemophilia a that manifests in some women with mutations in the f8 gene  ( xq28 )  ,  encoding coagulation factor viii .
a form of hemophilia b  ( see this term )  that manifests in some women with mutations in the f9 gene  ( xq28 )  ,  encoding coagulation factor ix .
central diabetes insipidus  ( cdi )  is a hypothalamus - pituitary disease characterized by polyuria and polydipsia due to a vasopressin  ( avp )  deficiency .
precocious puberty caused by sex hormones .
a common ,  self - limiting thyroid disorder seen in preterm infants that is characterized by abnormally low serum levels of thyroxine and free thyroxine with normal serum levels of thyroid stimulating hormone .
embryonal sarcoma of the liver is a rare primary malignant hepatic neoplasm of childhood of mesenchymal origin .
a condition of lung damage that is characterized by bilateral pulmonary infiltrates  ( pulmonary edema )  rich in neutrophils ,  and in the absence of clinical heart failure .
uv - sensitive syndrome is a condition that is characterized by sensitivity to the ultraviolet  ( uv )  rays in sunlight .
a multinodular intermediate fibroblastic neoplasm that arises from soft tissue or viscera ,  in children and young adults .
smith - mccort dysplasia  ( smc )  is a rare spondylo - epi - metaphyseal dysplasia characterized by the clinical manifestations of coarse facies ,  short neck ,  short trunk dwarfism with barrel - shaped chest and rhizomelic limb shortening ,  as well as specific radiological features  ( i .e .
this newly described syndrome is characterized by osteosclerosis ,  developmental delay and craniosynostosis .
autosomal dominant form of non - syndromic intellectual disability .
botulism that is caused by toxin that is produced in a wound contaminated with clostridium botulinum .
a botulism that occurs between 28 days to one year of life . .
a rare form of botulism ,  a rare acquired neuromuscular junction disease with descending flaccid paralysis caused by botulinum neurotoxins  ( bonts )  ,  and is due to intestinal colonization by clostridium botulinum leading to toxin - mediated infection with toxemia .
a very rare form of botulism ,  a rare acquired neuromuscular junction disease with descending flaccid paralysis caused by botulinum neurotoxins  ( bonts )  ,  and is due to intestinal colonization by clostridium botulinum leading to toxin - mediated infection with toxemia .
folliculotropic mycosis fungoides is a rare variant of mycosis fungoides  ( mf )  ,  a form of cutaneous t - cell lymphoma ,  and is characterized by the presence of folliculotropic infiltrates in patch - plaque lesions usually involving the head and neck area .
a variant of mycosis fungoides ,  characterized by an exclusively intraepidermal atypical  ( cerebriform )  lymphocytic infiltrate .
primary cutaneous aggressive epidermotropic cd8 +  t - cell lymphoma is a rare form of primary cutaneous t - cell lymphoma characterized by rapidly progressing ,  localized or disseminated nodules ,  tumors or eczematous skin lesions .
primary cutaneous gamma / delta - positive t - cell lymphoma is a rare ,  usually aggressive ,  subtype of cutaneous t - cell lymphoma characterized by infiltration of the epidermis ,  dermis or subcutaneous tissue by a clonal population of mature ,  gamma / delta positive cytotoxic t - cells .
extranodal lymphoma of lymphoid tissue associated with mucosa that is in contact with exogenous antigens .
a primary lymphoma of the skin composed of various numbers of small and large irregular neoplastic follicle center cells .
mycosis fungoides  ( mf )  and its variants represent the most common forms of cutaneous t - cell lymphomas .
an instance of neutropenia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
oculomaxillofacial dysostosis is a rare ,  genetic bone developmental disorder characterized by short stature ,  orbital region and ocular abnormalities  ( e .g .
autosomal dominant spondylocostal dysostosis is a very rare and mild form of spondylocostal dysostosis characterized by vertebral and costal segmentation defects ,  often with a reduction in the number of ribs .
distal renal tubular acidosis  ( drta )  is a disorder of impaired net acid secretion by the distal tubule characterized by hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
a uterovaginal malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
true unicornuate uterus is a rare ,  non - syndromic uterovaginal malformation characterized by a crescent - shaped ,  small - sized uterus containing a single horn and fallopian tube with no rudimentary horn .
pseudounicornuate uterus is a rare ,  non - syndromic uterovaginal malformation characterized by a crescent - shaped ,  small - sized uterus containing a single horn and fallopian tube associated with a rudimentary second horn  ( which can be solid or contain a cavity with functioning endometrium and be communicating or non - communicating )  .
complete septate uterus is a rare ,  non - syndromic uterovaginal malformation characterized by a uterus that has a longitudinal septum which elongates from the uterine fundus to the internal or external cervical os .
partial septate uterus is a rare ,  non - syndromic uterovaginal malformation characterized by a uterus that has a longitudinal septum which extends from the uterine fundus and does not reach the internal cervical os  ( variable lengths and widths may be observed )  .
a uterovaginal malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
polyembryoma is a type oftumor that develops from the cells of the gonads  ( testes in men or ovaries in women )  .
a malignant germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of at least two different germ cell components .
a carcinoma arising from the vaginal epithelium .
any of the forms of breast neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
any of the forms of breast benign neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
any of the forms of breast cancer that have a rare incidence .
a usually unilateral ,  benign and well circumscribed biphasic neoplasm that arises from the breast .
giant adenofibroma of the breast is a rare ,  benign ,  fibroepithelial tumor which usually manifests as a unilateral ,  painless ,  firm ,  mobile ,  slow - growing mass in the breast that measures more than 5 cm .
paget disease of the nipple describes a rare presentation of breast cancer ,  seen most frequently in women aged 50 - 60 ,  manifesting with nipple drainage and itching ,  erythema ,  crusty and excoriated nipple ,  thickened plaques ,  and hyperpigmentation  ( less frequently )  .
a tumor involving the gastroesophageal tissue .
any of the forms of pancreatic neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia ,  halal type is a form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by trichodysplasia ,  with absent eyebrows and eyelashes ,  onychodysplasia ,  mild retrognathia ,  abnormal dermatoglyphics  ( excess of whorls on fingertips ,  radial loop on finger ,  hypothenar pattern )  ,  intellectual disability and normal teeth and sweating .
autosomal dominant form of hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia .
a cluster of closely related metabolic abnormalities associated with insulin resistance that confer an increased risk of the development of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease .
any of the forms of type 1 diabetes mellitus that have a rare incidence .
growth hormone insensitivity syndrome  ( ghis )  is a group of diseases characterized by marked short stature associated with normal or elevated growth hormone  ( gh )  concentrations ,  which fail to respond to exogenous gh administration .
any of the forms of hypothyroidism that have a rare incidence .
any of the forms of hyperthyroidism that have a rare incidence .
rare hypoparathyroidism .
rare hyperparathyroidism .
abnormal sex differentiation or congenital disorders of sex development caused by abnormal levels of steroid hormones expressed by the gonads or the adrenal glands ,  such as in congenital adrenal hyperplasia and adrenal cortex neoplasms .
any of the forms of primary aldosteronism that have a rare incidence .
major hypertriglyceridemia comprises a group of endocrine diseases characterized by permanently high levels of triglycerides  ( tg )  in the blood  ( higher than 4g / l after 12 hours of fasting )  and an increased risk of acute pancreatitis ,  making screening essential .
an autosomal dominant genetic condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the cetp gene ,  encoding cholesteryl ester transfer protein .
a inherited lipid metabolism disorder that is part of a larger syndrome .
chromomycosis is a chronic cutaneous and subcutaneous fungal infection ,  found mainly in subtropical and tropical areas  ( in soil and plant debris and transmitted by traumatic inoculation )  ,  and characterized clinically by slow growing ,  verrucous nodules ,  squamous plaques ,  or chronic limited lesions which are most commonly found on the lower limbs and which are characterized histologically by the presence of muriform cells .
anemia resulting from bone marrow failure  ( aplastic or hypoplastic bone marrow )  .
hemolytic anemia ,  the cause of which is not present at birth .
myh9 - related disease  ( myh9 - rd )  is an inherited giant platelet disorder with a complex phenotype characterized by congenital thrombocytopenia and possible subsequent manifestations of sensorineural hearing loss ,  presenile cataracts ,  elevation of liver enzymes ,  and / or progressive nephropathy often leading to end - stage renal disease  ( esrd )  .
primary orthostatic hypotension is a rare type of orthostatic hypotension .
a grade iii or grade iv glioma arising from the central nervous system .
rare neurodegenerative disease .
an instance of peripheral neuropathy that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  is a group of diseases characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure .
a diverse group of lung diseases that affect the lung parenchyma .
an occupational lung disorder caused by inhalation of dust particles .
a non - syndromic urogenital tract malformation that involves the female organism .
a non - syndromic urogenital tract malformation that involves the male organism .
a rare tumor that involves the endocrine gland .
a systemic disease is one that affects a number of organs and tissues ,  or affects the body as a whole .
an autoimmune form of systemic disease .
any of the forms of rheumatologic disorder that have a rare incidence .
epiphyseal dysplasia - hearing loss - dysmorphism syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  sensorineural hearing impairment ,  facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
frontometaphyseal dysplasia  ( fmd )  belongs to the otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder and is characterized by anomalous ossification and skeletal patterning of the axial and appendicular skeleton ,  facial dysmorphism and conductive and sensorineural hearing loss .
eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis  ( egpa )  ,  previously known as churg - strauss syndrome ,  is a systemic vasculitis of small - to medium vessels ,  characterized by asthma ,  transient pulmonary infiltrates ,  and hypereosinophilia .
axial mesodermal dysplasia spectrum is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by congenital manifestations of both oculo - auriculo - vertebral spectrum and caudal regression sequence .
polymalformative genetic syndrome with increased risk of developing cancer  ( pgsirc )  comprises a wide range of syndromes characterized by congenital malformations with a high risk of developing tumors including up to 50 different rare diseases .
an instance of ichthyosis  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
hereditary photodermatoses are a spectrum of rare photosensitive disorders that are often caused by genetic deficiency or malfunction of various components of the dna repair pathway .
a form of epilepsy that is both rare and inborn .
rare hereditary ataxia .
rare genetic movement disorder .
rare genetic bone disease .
rare genetic diabetes mellitus .
rare genetic thyroid disease .
a form of anemia  ( disease )  that is both rare and inborn .
severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  comprises a group of rare monogenic primary immunodeficiency disorders characterized by a lack of functional peripheral t lymphocytes resulting in early - onset severe respiratory infections and failure to thrive .
a decreased level of serum immunoglobulins .
rare genetic intellectual disability .
rare genetic syndromic intellectual disability .
rare genetic immune system disease .
bone dysplasia azouz type is a form of generalized enchondromatosis with involvement of the spine  ( so called spondyloenchondromatosis )  .
bilateral renal agenesis is the most profound form of renal agenesis ,  characterized by complete absence of kidney development ,  absent ureters and subsequent absence of fetal renal function resulting in potter sequence with pulmonary hypoplasia related to oligohydramnios ,  which is fatal shortly after birth .
scimitar syndrome is characterized by a combination of cardiopulmonary anomalies including partial anomalous pulmonary venous return connection of the right lung to the inferior caval vein leading to the creation of a left - to - right shunt .
multicystic dysplastic kidney  ( mcdk )  is a congenital anomaly of the kidney and urinary tract  ( cakut )  in which one or both kidneys  ( unilateral or bilateral mcdk respectively )  are large ,  distended by multiple cysts ,  and non - functional .
1 / 100 , 000 )  usually diagnosed by echocardiography .
a rare neurologic movement disorder characterized by sustained muscle contractions of a single body region ,  usually producing twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal postures or positions .
citrullinemia is an autosomal recessively inherited disorder of urea cycle metabolism and ammonia detoxification characterized by elevated concentrations of serum citrulline and ammonia .
cone rod dystrophies  ( crds )  are inherited retinal dystrophies that belong to the group of pigmentary retinopathies .
melorheostosis with osteopoikilosis is a rare sclerosing bone dysplasia ,  combining the clinical and radiological features of melorheostosis and osteopoikilosis ,  that has been reported in some families with osteopoikilosis and that is characterized by a variable presentation of limb pain and deformities .
ectopia lentis - chorioretinal dystrophy - myopia syndrome is characterised by anomalies of the lens  ( ectopia and cataracts )  and retina  ( generalized tapetoretinal dystrophy and total retinal detachment )  .
isolated ectopia lentis  ( iel )  is a rare ,  clinically variable ,  eye disorder characterized by dislocation of the lens ,  often causing significant reduction in visual acuity .
primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease  ( ppnad )  is a form of bilateral adrenocortical hyperplasia that is often associated with adrenocorticotrophin hormone  ( acth )  independent cushing syndrome and is characterized by small to normal sized adrenal glands containing multiple small cortical pigmented nodules  ( less than 1 cm in diameter )  .
2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a group of neurometabolic disorders with a wide clinical spectrum ranging from severe neonatal presentations to progressive forms ,  and asymptomatic cases ,  characterized biochemically by increased levels of 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid in the plasma ,  cerebrospinal fluid and urine .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  kyphoscoliotic type  ( edkt )  is a form of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by severe hypotonia and kyphoscoliosis at birth ,  generalized joint hyperextensibility and ocular globe fragility .
human ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis describe a group of acute febrile tick - borne diseases characterized by an overlapping clinical picture that includes fever ,  headache ,  myalgias ,  arthralgias ,  skin eruptions ,  gastrointestinal symptoms and neurological manifestations .
aminopterin / methotrexate embryofetopathy is a syndrome of developmental anomalies characterized by growth deficiency ,  facial dysmorphism and skull ,  limb and neural defects secondary to maternal exposure to aminopterin or methotrexate  ( mtx )  during pregnancy .
indomethacin embryofetopathy refers to the manifestations that may be observed in a fetus or newborn when the mother has taken indomethacin ,  a potent prostaglandin inhibitor and tocolytic agent that can cross placenta ,  during pregnancy .
cockayne syndrome  ( cs )  is a multisystem condition characterized by short stature ,  a characteristic facial appearance ,  premature aging ,  photosensitivity ,  progressive neurological dysfunction ,  and intellectual deficit .
a group of clinical signs observed in newborns exposed in utero to cocaine ,  a short - acting central nervous system stimulant used as a recreational drug through inhalation of the powder or intravenous injection .
fetal hydantoin syndrome is a drug - related embryofetopathy that can occur when an embryo / fetus is exposed to the anticonvulsant drug phenytoin ,  characterized by distinct craniofacial anomalies  ( hypertelorism and epicanthal folds ,  short nose and deep nasal bridge ,  malformed and low set ears ,  short neck )  as well as hypoplastic distal phalanges and underdevelopment of nails of fingers and toes ,  prenatal and postnatal growth retardation ,  and neurological impairment  ( at a 2 - 3 times higher risk than that of the general population )  including cognitive deficits and motor developmental delay .
fetal trimethadione syndrome is a drug - related embryofetopathy that can occur when an embryo / fetus is exposed to trimethadione and that is characterized by pre -  and post - natal growth retardation ,  intellectual deficit ,  developmental and speech delay ,  craniofacial anomalies  ( with some similarities to those seen in fetal valproate syndrome )  ,  and less commonly ,  cleft palate ,  malformations of the heart ,  urogenital system and limbs .
a teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to warfarin during pregnancy .
fetal alcohol syndrome  ( fas )  is a rare malformation syndrome caused by excessive maternal consumption of alcohol during pregnancy .
diethylstilbestrol  ( des )  syndrome is a malformation syndrome reported in offspring  ( children and grandchildren )  of women exposed to des during pregnancy and is characterized by reproductive tract malformations ,  decreased fertility and increased risk of developing clear cell carcinoma of the vagina and cervix in young women .
foetal methylmercury syndrome is characterised by a group of symptoms that may be observed in a foetus or newborn when the mother was exposed during pregnancy to excessive amounts of methylmercury .
fetal minoxidil syndrome is characterized by a group of symptoms that may be observed in a fetus or newborn when the mother has taken minoxidil during pregnancy .
#64257 ; nger hypoplasia ,  brachydactyly and hypospadias have been reported in rare cases .
toluene embryopathy is a neurodevelopmental teratologic syndrome due to prenatal exposure to toluene .
methimazole embryopathy is a teratogenic embryofetopathy that results from maternal exposition to methimazole  ( mmi ;  or the parent compound carbimazole )  in the first trimester of pregnancy .
diabetic embryopathy is characterized by congenital anomalies or foetal / neonatal complications in an infant that are linked to diabetes in the mother .
a rare ,  progressive chronic inflammation of a single cerebral hemisphere that usually affects children .
early myoclonic encephalopathy  ( eme )  is characterized clinically by the onset of fragmentary myoclonus appearing in the first month of life ,  often associated with erratic focal seizures and a suppression - burst eeg pattern .
myoclonic astatic epilepsy  ( mae )  is a rare epilepsy syndrome of childhood characterized by the occurrence of multiple different seizure types including myoclonic - astatic ,  generalized tonic - clonic and absence seizures ,  usually in previously healthy children .
infant epilepsy with migrant focal crisis is characterized by early - onset progressive encephalopathy with migrant ,  continuous myoclonus .
benign familial neonatal epilepsy  ( bfne )  is a rare genetic epilepsy syndrome characterized by the occurrence of afebrile seizures in otherwise healthy newborns with onset in the first few days of life .
erythromelalgia is a rare neurovascular peripheral pain disorder due to the intermittent blockage of the blood vessels ,  usually in the lower extremities or hands .
esthesioneuroblastoma  ( enb )  is a rare malignant neoplasm of the sinonasal cavity ,  arising from the basal layers of olfactory neuroepithelial cells in the superior nasal vault ,  which usually occurs in the 5th to 6th decades of life and is characterized clinically by non - specific symptoms such as progressive ipsilateral nasal block ,  sinusitis ,  facial pain ,  intermittent headaches ,  hyposmia / dysosmia ,  rhinorrhea and epistaxis as well as proptosis ,  diplopia and excessive lacrimation due to orbital extension .
evans syndrome is a rare chronic hematologic disorder characterized by the simultaneous or sequential association of autoimmune hemolytic anemia  ( aiha ;  a disorder in which auto - antibodies are directed against red blood cells causing anemia of varying degrees of severity )  with immune thrombocytopenic purpura  ( itp ;  a coagulation disorder in which auto - antibodies are directed against platelets causing hemorrhagic episodes )  and occasionally autoimmune neutropenia ,  in the absence of a known underlying etiology .
congenital short femur is a rare malformation of variable severity ranging from mild hypoplasia to complete absence of the femur .
a rare syndrome characterized by low birth weight ,  delayed growth ,  mental retardation ,  behavioral problems ,  and a distinctive facial appearance  ( thin ,  arched eyebrows ,  low set ears ,  small teeth ,  and small nose )  .
a syndrome that develops following bilateral adrenalectomy for cushing syndrome .
ledderhose disease is a type of plantar fibromatosis characterized by the growth of hard and round or flattened nodules  ( lumps )  on the soles of the feet .
a poorly circumscribed ,  intermediate fibrocytic neoplasm arising from the superficial soft tissues .
a rare slow - growing benign neoplasm arising from the soft tissues in children .
harlequin syndrome  ( hsd )  is an autonomic disorder occurring at any age and characterized by unilateral flushing and sweating ,  involving the face and sometimes arm and chest ,  in condition of thermal ,  exercise or emotional stress without sympathetic ocular manifestations .
congenital microgastria is a rare malformation where the embryological development of the stomach is interrupted ,  leading to an abnormally small foregut in newborns and characterized by extreme feeding intolerance and malnutrition along with growth retardation and death if untreated .
late - onset isolated acth deficiency is a rare ,  acquired ,  pituitary hormone deficiency characterized by secondary adrenal insufficiency ,  with normal secretion of anterior pituitary hormones ,  except for acth .
isolated cleft lip is a fissure type embryopathy extending from the upper lip to the nasal base .
cleft lip and palate is a fissure type embryopathy extending across the upper lip ,  nasal base ,  alveolar ridge and the hard and soft palate .
tetragametic chimerism is a rare ,  sex chromosome disorder of sex development characterized by the two different haploid sets of maternal and paternal chromosomes and variable phenotype  -  from normal male or female genitalia ,  to different degrees of ambiguous genitalia ,  and often infertility .
familial clubfoot with or without associated lower limb anomalies is a rare congenital limb malformation syndrome characterized by malalignment of the bones and joints of the foot and ankle ,  with presence of forefoot and midfoot adductus ,  hindfoot varus ,  and ankle equinus ,  presenting as rigid inward turning of the foot towards the midline ,  in various members of a single family .
an infectious process affecting the internal structures of the eye .
isolated autosomal dominant hypomagnesemia ,  glaudemans type  ( iadhg )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  ,  characterized by low serum magnesium  ( mg )  values but normal urinary mg values .
paradas type congenital myopathy is an early - onset form of dysferlinopathy presenting with postnatal hypotonia ,  weakness in the proximal lower limbs and neck flexor muscles at birth and delayed motor development .
thiamine - responsive encephalopathy is a wernicke - like encephalopathy characterized by seizures responsive to high doses of thiamine .
cleft lip  -  retinopathy is an exceedingly rare association characterized by cleft lip and progressive retinopathy .
atypical autism is a pervasive developmental disorder that does not fit the diagnosis for the other specific autistic spectrum disorders  ( autism ,  asperger syndrome ,  rett syndrome or childhood disintegrative disorder )  and is characterized by usually milder developmental and social delay and less stereotypical autistic behavior . '
isolated cerebellar vermis hypoplasia is a rare ,  non - syndromic cerebellar malformation characterized by an underdeveloped cerebellar vermis .
brain tissue herniation through a congenital or acquired defect in the skull .
cleft lip / palate - deafness - sacral lipoma syndrome is characterised by cleft lip / palate ,  profound sensorineural deafness ,  and a sacral lipoma .
a laryngo - tracheo - esophageal cleft  ( lc )  is a congenital malformation characterized by an abnormal ,  posterior ,  sagittal communication between the larynx and the pharynx ,  possibly extending downward between the trachea and the esophagus .
midline cleft of lower lip is a rare anomaly defined as cleft no .
cleft palate is a fissure type embryopathy that affects the soft and hard palate to varying degrees .
cleft palate -  short stature -  vertebral anomalies is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in a father and son characterized by the association of cleft palate ,  peculiar facies  ( asymmetrical appearance ,  inner epicanthal folds ,  short nose ,  anteverted nostrils ,  low and back - oriented ears ,  thin upper lip and micrognathism )  ,  short stature ,  short neck ,  vertebral anomalies and intellectual disability .
sternal cleft  ( sc )  is a rare idiopathic congenital thoracic malformation characterized by a sternal fusion defect ,  that can be complete or partial  ( either superior or inferior )  ,  that is usually asymptomatic in the neonatal period  ( apart from a paradoxical midline thoracic bulging )  but that can lead to dyspnea ,  cough ,  frequent respiratory infections and increased risk of trauma - related injury to the heart ,  lungs and major vessels if left untreated .
this syndrome is characterized by progressive sensorineural deafness ,  alopecia and hypogonadism with lh and gh deficiencies .
fibrochondrogenesis is a rare ,  neonatally lethal ,  rhizomelic chondrodysplasia .
hereditary gingival fibromatosis  ( hgf )  is a rare benign ,  slowly progressive ,  non - inflammatory fibrous hyperplasia of the maxillary and mandibular gingivae that generally occurs with the eruption of the permanent  ( or more rarely the primary )  dentition or even at birth .
juvenile hyaline fibromatosis  ( jhf )  is a rare soft tissue tumor ,  characterized by papulo - nodular skin lesions  ( especially around the head and neck )  ,  soft tissue masses ,  gingival hypertrophy ,  joint contractures ,  and osteolytic bone lesions in variable degrees .
an instance of anomaly of puberty or / and menstrual cycle that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
a microphthalmia that is part of a larger syndrome .
a parasitic disease caused by tissue - invasive ,  vector - borne nematodes which can be found anywhere in the human body and that are transmitted to humans through the bite of an infected mosquito or fly or by consumption of unsafe drinking water and which ,  depending on the subtype can manifest with lymphedema ,  dermatitis ,  subcutaneous edema and eye involvement .
sporadic creutzfeldt - jakob disease  ( scjd )  is a subacute fatal neurodegenerative disease belonging to the group of prion diseases ,  characterized by a clinical triad of dementia ,  myoclonus ,  and eeg anomalies ,  along with neuropathological evidence of neuronal loss ,  spongiform changes ,  and astrocytosis .
congenital respiratory - biliary fistula  ( rbf )  is a rare developmental defect characterized by an anomalous connection of trachea or bronchus with left hepatic duct presenting with respiratory distress ,  recurrent respiratory infections and biliary expectoration or vomitus .
coronary arterial fistulas are a connection between one or more of the coronary arteries and a cardiac chamber or great vessel .
flotch syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  cutaneous disorder characterized by leuchonychia and multiple ,  recurrent pilar cysts ,  associated or not with ciliar dystrophy and / or koilonychia .
cole - carpenter syndrome is an extremely rare form of bone dysplasia characterized by the features of osteogenesis imperfecta such as bone fragility associated with multiple fractures ,  bone deformities  ( metaphyseal irregularities and bowing of the long bones )  and blue sclera ,  in association with growth failure ,  craniosynostosis ,  hydrocephalus ,  ocular proptosis ,  and distinctive facial features  ( e .g .
osteochondritis of tarsal / metatarsal bone is a very rare form of osteochondritis dissecans characterized by generally self - limiting bone lesions that may cause pain and swelling often localized at the tarsal navicular bone
progressive non - infectious anterior vertebral fusion  ( pavf )  is an early childhood spinal disorder characterized by the gradual onset of thoracic and / or lumbar spine ankylosis often in conjunction with kyphosis with distinctive radiological features .
hypoxanthine - guanine phosphoribosyltransferase  ( hprt )  deficiency is a hereditary disorder of purine metabolism associated with uric acid overproduction and a continuum spectrum of neurological manifestations depending on the degree of the enzyme deficiency .
a krabbe disease that occurs in an adult .
serous or mucinous cystadenoma of childhood is a benign epithelial ovarian tumor characterized by a usually unilateral ,  cystic ,  unilocular or multilocular lesion with a thin wall or septa and no intracystic solid portion on imaging .
a low grade epithelial tumor arising from the ovary .
a malignant germ cell tumor that involves the vagina .
a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm with skeletal muscle differentiation arising from the vagina .
a malignant germ cell tumor other than dysgerminoma that arises from the ovary .
symptomatic forms of duchenne and becker muscular dystrophies  ( dmd and bmd )  in females carriers are characterized by variable degrees of muscle weakness due to progressive skeletal myopathy ,  sometimes associated with dilated cardiomyopathy or left ventricle dilation .
necrotizing autoimmune myopathy  ( nam )  is a rare form of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy characterized clinically by acute or subacute proximal muscle weakness ,  and histopathologically by myocyte necrosis and regeneration without significant inflammation .
overlap myositis  ( om )  is a form of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy  ( iim )  characterized by myositis with at least one clinical and / or autoantibody overlap feature .
a transmissible viral disease of birds caused by avian herpesvirus 2  ( herpesvirus 2 ,  gallid )  and other mardivirus .
subacute inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy  ( sidp )  is a subacute progressive symmetric sensorial and / or motor disorder characterized by muscular weakness with impaired sensation ,  absent or diminished tendon reflexes and elevated cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  proteins .
isolated hyperckemia is a condition characterized by elevated levels of an enzyme called creatine kinase in the blood .
an infectious process affecting the peripheral nerves .
an instance of skeletal muscle disease that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an inherited progressive disorder affecting the muscles .
autosomal dominant form of distal myopathy .
autosomal recessive form of distal myopathy .
a group of rare skeletal muscle ion - channel disorders caused by genetic mutations in the sodium and chloride channel genes .
a bulbospinal muscular atrophy that occurs during childhood .
a bulbospinal muscular atrophy that occurs in an adult .
eosinophilic gastroenteritis  ( ege )  is a rare benign gastrointestinal disease characterized by the presence of abnormal and nonspecific gastro - intestinal  ( gi )  manifestations ,  associated with an eosinophilic infiltration of the gi tract ,  which can affect several segments and involve several layers within the gi wall .
deficiencies or mutations in the genes for the sarcoglycan complex subunits .
a group of muscle diseases with basis in cav3 ,  which encodes caveolin - 3 ,  a muscle - specific membrane protein and the principal component of caveolae membrane in muscle cells in vivo .
narcolepsy with cataplexy is a sleep disorder characterized by excessive day - time sleepiness associated with uncontrollable sleep urges and cataplexy  ( loss of muscle tone often triggered by pleasant emotions )  .
cerebral gigantism - jaw cysts syndrome is characterised by cerebral gigantism associated with a jaw cyst basal cell naevoid syndrome .
bilateral frontal polymicrogyria is one of the rarest subtypes of polymicrogyria .
herpetiform pemphigus is a rare superficial pemphigus disease characterized by severe intractable pruritus with erythematous or urticarial plaques and vesicles organized in a herpetiform pattern .
genetic hypoparathyroidism .
genetic hyperparathyroidism .
optic pathway glioma  ( opg )  is a benign tumor that develop along the optic nerve  ( chiasm ,  tracts ,  and radiations )  characterized by impairment or loss of vision and may be accompanied by diencephalic symptoms such as reduced growth and alteration in sleeping patterns .
cryopyrin associated periodic syndrome  ( caps )  defines a group of autoinflammatory diseases ,  characterized by recurrent episodes of systemic inflammatory attacks in the absence of infection or autoimmune disease .
chronic form of acquired peripheral neuropathy .
chronic form of polyradiculoneuropathy .
an instance of sensory ganglionopathy that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
cutis laxa  ( cl )  is an inherited or acquired connective tissue disorder characterized by wrinkled ,  redundant and sagging inelastic skin associated with skeletal and developmental anomalies and ,  in some cases ,  with severe systemic involvement .
autosomal dominant form of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment .
idiopathic copper - associated cirrhosis is a rare copper - overload liver disease characterized by a rapidly progressive liver cirrhosis from the first few years of life leading to hepatic insufficiency and harboring a specific pathological aspect: pericellular fibrosis ,  inflammatory infiltration ,  hepatocyte necrosis ,  absence of steatosis ,  poor regeneration and histochemical copper staining .
intraocular inflammation occurring after extracapsular cataract extraction ;  probably an immune reaction to the patient's liberated lenticular proteins .
solitary rectal ulcer syndrome  ( srus )  is a rare rectal disease characterized by rectal bleeding ,  abdominal pain ,  passage of mucus ,  sensation of incomplete evacuation ,  straining at defecation and rectal prolapsed ,  secondary to ischemic changes in the rectum .
benign nocturnal alternating hemiplegia of childhood is a rare neurologic disease characterized by recurrent attacks of nocturnal screaming or crying followed or accompanied by unilateral or sometimes bilateral hemiplegia .
cyclosporosis is a parasitic disease caused by cyclospora cayetanensis ,  a recently discovered coccidia that was initially described in peru and then in most intertropical zones .
leukonychia totalis - acanthosis - nigricans - like lesions - abnormal hair syndrome is a rare ,  syndromic nail anomaly disorder characterized by the association of leukonychia totalis with acanthosis - nigricans - like lesions  ( occurring in the neck ,  axillae and abdomen regions )  and hair dysplasia ,  manifesting with dry ,  brittle hair which presents an irregular pattern of complete or incomplete twists and an irregular surface with londitudinal furrows on electronic microscopy .
pulmonary fibrosis  -  hepatic hyperplasia  -  bone marrow hypoplasia ,  also named btrimorphic syndromeb  ( i .e .
a type of spastic cerebral palsy characterized by increased muscle tone of all four extremities .
adult hepatocellular carcinoma is the most common primary liver cancer of adulthood .
mal de debarquement  ( mdd )  is a rare otorhinolaryngological disease characterized by a persistent sensation of motion such as rocking ,  swaying ,  tumbling and / or bobbing following a period of exposure to passive movement ,  usually an ocean cruise or other types of water ,  train ,  automobile or air travel and less commonly other movements  ( like sleeping on a waterbed )  .
guillain - barrc )  syndrome  ( gbs )  is the term used to describe a spectrum of rare post - infectious neuropathies that usually occur in otherwise healthy patients .
dysmorphism - pectus carinatum - joint laxity syndrome is characterised by joint laxity ,  pectus carinatum and facial dysmorphism  ( mild frontal bossing ,  a beaked nose with a low nasal bridge ,  malar hypoplasia ,  chubby cheeks ,  a striking philtrum and arched upper lips )  .
congenital temporomandibular joint ankylosis is a rare maxillofacial disorder characterized by significant reduction in mouth opening  ( i .e .
spindle cell hemangioma  ( sch )  ,  also known as spindle cell hemangioendothelioma ,  is a rare benign vascular tumor either solitary or multiple ,  characterized by cavernous blood vessels separated by spindle cells reminiscent of those in kaposibs sarcoma and located in the dermis and subcutis .
autosomal dominant form of proximal spinal muscular atrophy .
diagnosed when there are specific deficits in an individualbs ability to perceive or process information efficiently and accurately .
hereditary episodic ataxia  ( ea )  represents a group of neurological disorders characterized by recurrent episodes of ataxia and vertigo which may be progressive .
any of the forms of vascular neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
an instance of vascular anomaly that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
rare arteriovenous malformation .
kaposiform hemangioendothelioma is a very rare ,  aggressive ,  vascular tumor manifesting in the neonatal period or in infancy as cutaneous vascular tumors to large infiltrative lesions .
diffuse neonatal hemangiomatosis is a rare vascular tumor from unknown origin characterized by multiple ,  progressive ,  rapidly growing cutaneous hemangiomas  ( e .g .
solitary fibrous tumor  ( sft )  represents a diverse group of ubiquitous rare spindle cell neoplasms that may be benign or malignant and that most frequently arises from the pleura and peritoneum and rarely from other sites such as head and neck ,  liver and skeletal muscle .
cystinosis is a metabolic disease characterized by an accumulation of cystine inside the lysosomes ,  causing damage in different organs and tissues ,  particularly in the kidneys and eyes .
hemimelia is a limb malformation characterized by the absence or gross shortening of the lower portion of one or more of the limbs .
alternating hemiplegia of childhood  ( ahc )  is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of hemiplegia and paroxysmal disturbances associated with persistent developmental delay and cognitive impairment .
hemoglobin c disease  ( hbc )  is a hemoglobinopathy characterized by production of abnormal variant hemoglobin known as hemoglobin c ,  with no or mild clinical manifestations  ( hemolytic anemia )  .
hemoglobin e disease  ( hbe )  is a hemoglobinopathy characterized by production of abnormal variant hemoglobin known as hemoglobin e ,  with a generally benign ,  asymptomatic presentation .
atypical hemolytic - uremic syndrome  ( ahus )  is a thrombotic microangiopathy characterized by mechanical hemolytic anemia ,  thrombocytopenia ,  and renal dysfunction .
an instance of ovarian cancer that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
hereditary site - specific ovarian cancer syndrome refers to ovarian cancer caused by germline mutations in various genes ,  usually associated with additional cancer risks .
any of the forms of breast adenocarcinoma that have a rare incidence .
salivary gland type cancer of the breast describes a group of uncommon neoplasms ,  usually seen in the salivary glands but occurring in the breast ,  with a variable clinicopathologic spectrum and divided into those with myoepithelial differentiation and those without .
rare uterine cancer .
a primary ,  benign or malignant neoplasm of the uterine corpus characterized by the presence of an epithelial and a mesenchymal component .
hennekam syndrome is characterised by the association of lymphoedema ,  intestinal lymphangiectasia ,  intellectual deficit and facial dysmorphism .
adenosarcoma of the corpus uteri is a rare subtype of mixed epithelial - mesenchymal tumor ,  often presenting as a large ,  exophytic polypoid lesion ,  which may extend through the cervix ,  composed of benign or atypical epithelium and low - grade malignant stroma .
an uncommon malignant neoplasm arising from the uterine corpus .
an aggressive malignant mixed epithelial and mesenchymal tumor that arises from the uterine corpus .
a rare malignant heterologous neoplasm with skeletal muscle differentiation arising from the uterine corpus .
an aggressive malignant smooth muscle neoplasm ,  arising from the uterine corpus .
a primitive neuroectodermal tumor that involves the body of uterus .
hepatitis caused by autoantibodies .drugs ,  infections ,  and toxins may trigger the production of the autoantibodies against the liver parenchyma .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the body of uterus .
undifferentiated carcinoma of the corpus uteri is a rare cancer of corpus uteri presenting as a large ,  polypoid ,  intraluminal mass with necrosis ,  composed of small to intermediate - size ,  relatively uniform ,  dyshesive cells displaying no differentiation .
a papillary carcinoma that involves the body of uterus .
high - grade neuroendocrine carcinoma of the corpus uteri is an extremely rare ,  aggressive ,  primary uterine neoplasm ,  originating from neuroendocrine cells scattered within the endometrium ,  characterized ,  macroscopically ,  by a bulky ,  frequently polypoid ,  mass with abundant necrosis located in the uterus and ,  histologically ,  by rosette - like and cord - like structures consisting of small ,  rounded cells with oval nuclei and scarce cytoplasm .
low - grade neuroendocrine tumor of the corpus uteri is an extremely rare uterine cancer typically characterized by a well demarcated ,  solid ,  frequently pedunculated tumor originating from neuroendocrine cells scattered within the endometrium ,  often associated with ectopic hormone production .
a adenoid cystic carcinoma that involves the body of uterus .
a transitional cell carcinoma that involves the body of uterus .
a malignant germ cell tumor that involves the body of uterus .
rare cervical cancer .
a adenocarcinoma that involves the uterine cervix .
high - grade neuroendocrine carcinoma of the cervix uteri is a rare ,  aggressive ,  primary cervical neoplasm ,  originating from neuroendocrine cells present in the lining epithelium of the cervix ,  characterized ,  macroscopically ,  by usually large lesions ,  sometimes with a barrel - shaped appearance .
carcinosarcoma of the cervix uteri is a rare ,  malignant ,  mixed epithelial and mesenchymal tumor ,  located in the cervix uteri ,  composed of an admixture of carcinomatous and sarcomatous elements .
adenosarcoma of the cervix uteri is a rare subtype of malignant mixed epithelial and mesenchymal tumor composed of benign or mildly atypical glandular elements and a surrounding low - grade malignant stroma ,  often containing heterologous elements ,  such as areas of sex - cord - like or smooth muscle differentiation .
a sarcoma involving a uterine cervix .
46 , xx ovotesticular disorder of sex development  ( 46 , xx ovotesticular dsd )  is characterized by histologically confirmed testicular and ovarian tissue in an individual with a 46 , xx karyotype .
a rare malignant neoplasm with skeletal muscle differentiation arising from the cervix .
leiomyosarcoma of the cervix uteri is a rare ,  malignant mesenchymal tumor of smooth muscle origin ,  macroscopically appearing as a large ,  poorly circumscribed mass ,  often protruding from the cervical canal or expanding it circumferentially .
primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the cervix uteri is a rare cancer of cervix uteri derived from neural crest cells ,  histologically composed of small ,  round neoplatic cells with variable degree of neural ,  glial and ependymal differentiation .
a papillary carcinoma that involves the uterine cervix .
a adenoid cystic carcinoma that involves the uterine cervix .
a skin adenoid basal cell carcinoma that involves the uterine cervix .
a malignant germ cell tumor that involves the uterine cervix .
hernndez - aguirre negrete syndrome is characterized by major seizures ,  dysmorphic features  ( round face ,  bulbous nose ,  wide mouth ,  prominent philtrum )  ,  pes planus ,  psychomotor retardation and obesity .
craniosynostosis ,  herrmann - opitz type is a rare bone development disorder characterized by intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  turribrachycephaly ,  facial dysmorphism  ( i .e .
hirschsprung disease - type d brachydactyly syndrome is characterized by hirschsprung disease and absence or hypoplasia of the nails and distal phalanges of the thumbs and great toes  ( type d brachydactyly )  .
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( ncls )  are a group of inherited progressive degenerative brain diseases characterized clinically by a decline of mental and other capacities ,  epilepsy ,  and vision loss through retinal degeneration ,  and histopathologically by intracellular accumulation of an autofluorescent material ,  ceroid lipofuscin ,  in the neuronal cells in the brain and in the retina .
holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  is a complex brain malformation resulting from incomplete cleavage of the prosencephalon ,  occurring between the 18th and 28th day of gestation ,  and affecting both the forebrain and face ,  which results in neurological manifestations and facial anomalies of variable severity .
prelingual non - syndromic genetic deafness is a rare ,  genetically highly heterogeneous otorhinolaryngologic disease ,  resulting from inner and / or middle ear or hearing nerve anomalies ,  typically characterized by bilateral ,  severe to profound hearing loss  ( mean sensorineural hearing impairment of 60 db or more for 500 -  ,  1 , 000 -  ,  and 2 , 000 - hz frequency tones in the better ear )  which occurs before the onset of speech development and is not associated with visible external ear abnormalities or any other medical problems .
postlingual non - syndromic genetic deafness is a rare ,  genetically highly heterogeneous otorhinolaryngologic disease ,  resulting from inner and / or middle ear or hearing nerve anomalies ,  typically characterized by progressive ,  bilateral ,  moderate to profound hearing loss  ( mean sensorineural hearing impairment equal to 40 db or more for 500 -  ,  1 , 000 -  ,  and 2 , 000 - hz frequency tones in the better ear )  which occurs after the onset of speech development and is not associated with visible external ear abnormalities or any other medical problems .
holoprosencephaly - caudal dysgenesis syndrome is a central nervous system malformation syndrome characterized by holoprosencephaly with microcephaly ,  abnormal eye morphology  ( hypotelorism ,  cyclopia ,  exophthalmos )  ,  nasal anomalies  ( single nostril or absent nose )  ,  and cleft lip / palate ,  combined with signs of caudal regression  ( sacral agenesis ,  sirenomelia with absent external genitalia )  .
congenitally corrected transposition  ( cct )  of the great vessels is a rare cardiac malformation characterized by the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo - arterial connections ,  usually accompanied by other cardiovascular malformations .
5 - fluorouracil  ( 5 - fu )  poisoning is a rare intoxication caused by the prolonged ,  low - dose administration of 5 - fu ,  which is the mainstay of both adjuvant and advanced - disease chemotherapy regimens in colon cancer .
rare pancreatic carcinoma .
mucopolysaccharidosis type 2  ( mps2 )  ,  severe form  ( mps2s )  ,  is associated with a massive accumulation of glycosaminoglycans and a wide variety of symptoms including a rapidly progressive cognitive decline ;  it is most often fatal in the second or third decade .
mucopolysaccharidosis type 2 ,  attenuated form  ( mps2att )  ,  the less severe form of mps2 ,  leads to a massive accumulation of glycosaminoglycans and a wide variety of symptoms including distinctive facies ,  short stature ,  cardiorespiratory and skeletal findings .
limbic encephalitis with anti - n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptor antibodies is a recently described type of encephalitis affecting young women with teratoma of ovary and associated with antibodies that react with neuronal cell surface auto - antigens .
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy  ( pml )  is a neurological disorder that damages the myelin that covers and protects nerves in the white matter of the brain .
pulmonary interstitial glycogenosis  ( pig )  is a rare non - lethal pediatric form of interstitial lung disease  ( ild )  .
neuroendocrine cell hyperplasia of infancy  ( nchi )  is a non - lethal pediatric form of interstitial lung disease  ( ild )  characterized by tachypnea without respiratory failure .
an instance of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
infantile systemic hyalinosis  ( ish )  is a very rare disorder belonging to the heterogeneous group of genetic fibromatoses and is characterized by progressive joint contractures ,  skin abnormalities ,  severe chronic pain and widespread deposition of hyaline material in many tissues such as the skin ,  skeletal muscle ,  cardiac muscle ,  gastrointestinal tract ,  lymph nodes ,  spleen ,  thyroid ,  and adrenal glands .
a a genetic form of heart disease that occurs when heart  ( cardiac )  muscle becomes thin and weakened in at least one chamber of the heart ,  causing the open area of the chamber to become enlarged  ( dilated )  .
an instance of restrictive cardiomyopathy that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
familial isolated arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia  ( arvc )  is the familial autosomal dominant form of arvc ,  a heart muscle disease characterized by life - threatening ventricular arrhythmias with left bundle branch block configuration that may manifest with palpitations ,  ventricular tachycardia ,  syncope and sudden fatal attacks ,  and that is due to dystrophy and fibro - fatty replacement of the right ventricular myocardium that may lead to right ventricular aneurysms .
a rare congenital brain disorder in which the cerebral hemispheres are absent and replaced by sacs that contain cerebrospinal fluid .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of congenital hydrocephalus ,  centripetal obesity ,  hypogonadism ,  intellectual deficit and short stature .
a rare form of cardiac rhythm disease .
hydrocephalus that is present at birth .
hydrocephalus - blue sclera - nephropathy syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  renal or urinary tract malformation syndrome characterized by nephrotic syndrome with focal segmental sclerosis associated with hydrocephalus ,  thin skin and blue sclerae .
anti - hla hyperimmunization is an increase in anti - hla antigens mostly seen in chronic renal failure  ( crf )  patients that have undergone hemodialysis and polytransfusion .
xeroderma pigmentosum / cockayne syndrome complex  ( xp / cs complex )  is characterized by the cutaneous features of xeroderma pigmentosum  ( xp )  together with the systemic and neurological features of cockayne syndrome  ( cs )  .
semilobar holoprosencephaly is one of the classical forms of holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  in which the left and right frontal and parietal lobes are fused and the interhemispheric fissure is only present posteriorly .
diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis  ( dcssc )  is a subtype of systemic sclerosis  ( ssc )  characterized by truncal and acral skin fibrosis with an early and significant incidence of diffuse involvement  ( interstitial lung disease ,  oliguric renal failure ,  diffuse gastrointestinal disease ,  and myocardial involvement )  .
limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis  ( lcssc )  is a subtype of systemic sclerosis  ( ssc )  characterized by the association of raynaud's phenomenon with skin fibrosis limited to the hands ,  face ,  feet and forearms .
limited systemic sclerosis  ( lssc )   ( or ssc sine scleroderma )  is a subset of systemic sclerosis  ( ssc )  characterized by organ involvement in the absence of fibrosis of the skin .
macrothrombocytopenia with mitral valve insufficiency is a rare hemorrhagic disorder due to a platelet anomaly characterized by dysfunctional platelets of abnormally large size ,  moderate thrombocytopenia ,  prolonged bleeding time and mild bleeding diathesis  ( ecchymoses and epistaxis )  ,  associated with mitral valve insufficiency .
attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis  ( afap )  is a mild form of familial adenomatous polyposis characterized by the presence of fewer than 100 adenomatous colonic polyps ,  a more proximal colonic location ,  a delayed age of colorectal cancer  ( crc )  onset and a more limited expression of the extracolonic features .
rare hereditary hemochromatosis comprises the rare forms of hereditary hemochromatosis  ( hh )  ,  a group of diseases characterized by excessive tissue iron deposition .
joubert syndrome with ocular defect is ,  along with pure js ,  the most frequent subtype of joubert syndrome and related disorders  ( jsrd )  characterized by the neurological features of js associated with retinal dystrophy .
an instance of primary hyperparathyroidism  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
maternal phenylketonuria  ( pku )  is a rare disorder of phenylalanine metabolism ,  an inborn error of amino acid metabolism ,  characterized by the development of microcephaly ,  growth retardation ,  congenital heart disease ,  facial dysmorphism and intellectual disability in nonphenylketonuric offspring of mothers with excess phenylalanine  ( phe )  concentrations .
dermatomyositis  ( dm )  is a type of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy characterized by evocative skin lesions and symmetrical proximal muscle weakness .
rothmund - thomson syndrome type 1 is a subform of rothmund - thomson syndrome  ( rts )  presenting with a characteristic facial rash  ( poikiloderma )  and frequently associated with short stature ,  sparse scalp hair ,  sparse or absent eyelashes and / or eyebrows ,  and rapidly progressive bilateral juvenile cataracts .
rothmund - thomson syndrome type 2 is a subform of rothmund - thomson syndrome  ( rts )  presenting with a characteristic facial rash  ( poikiloderma )  and frequently associated with short stature ,  sparse scalp hair ,  sparse or absent eyelashes and / or eyebrows ,  congenital bone defects and an increased risk of osteosarcoma in childhood and squamous cell carcinoma later in life .
marchiafava bignami disease is defined by characteristic demyelination of the corpus callosum  ( erosion of the protective covering of nerve fibers joining the 2 hemispheres of the brain )  .
glossopharyngeal neuralgia is a condition characterized by repeated episodes of severe pain in the tongue ,  throat ,  ear ,  and tonsils  ( areas connected to the ninth cranial nerve ,  or glossopharyngeal nerve )  .
a neuralgia that involves the cranial neuron projection bundle .
pitt - hopkins - like syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disability disorder characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  lack of speech with normal ,  or mildly delayed ,  motor development ,  episodic breathing abnormalities ,  early - onset seizures and facial dysmorphism which only includes a wide mouth .
maternal hyperthermia induced birth defects is a rare maternal disease - related embryofetopathy characterized by variable developmental anomalies of the fetus due to teratogenic effect of elevated maternal body temperature  ( resulting from febrile illness or hot environment exposure )  .
70 years old )  and characterized by the development of painful pustules ,  shallow erosions ,  and crusting on atrophic skin that eventually result in cicatricial alopecia .
acquired hypertrichosis lanuginosa is a rare cutaneous paraneoplastic disease characterized by the presence of excessive lanugo - type hair on the glabrous skin of face ,  neck ,  trunk and limbs that can be associated with additional clinical features such as burning glossitis ,  papillary hypertrophy of the tongue ,  diarrhea ,  dysgeusia ,  and / or weight loss .
hypertrichosis lanuginosa congenita is a rare congenital skin disease characterized by the presence of 3 to 5cm long lanugo - type hair on the entire body ,  with the exception of palms ,  soles ,  and mucous membranes .
nephrogenic diabetes insipidus  ( ndi )  is characterized by polyuria with polydipsia ,  recurrent bouts of fever ,  constipation ,  and acute hypernatremic dehydration after birth that may cause neurological sequelae .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and frontoparietal alopecia .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of hypogonadism due to primary gonadal failure ,  mitral valve prolapse ,  mild intellectual deficit and short stature .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism  ( with primary amenorrhea and lack of secondary sexual development )  and retinitis pigmentosa .
familial isolated hypoparathyroidism  ( fih )  is a rare heterogeneous group of metabolic disorders characterized by abnormal calcium metabolism due to deficient secretion of parathormone  ( pth )  ,  without other endocrine disorders or developmental defects .
neonatal diabetes mellitus presents as hyperglycemia ,  failure to thrive and ,  in some cases ,  dehydration and ketoacidosis which may be severe with coma ,  in a child within the first months of life .
cerebellar hypoplasia - tapetoretinal degeneration syndrome is a rare syndrome with a cerebellar malformation as a major feature characterized by cerebellar hypoplasia ,  bilateral retinal pigmentary changes ,  intellectual disability that can range from mild to moderate and pronounced language development delay .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of severe nasal hypoplasia ,  hypoplasia of the eyes ,  hyposmia ,  hypogeusia and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
sporadic infantile bilateral necrosis is the sporadic form of infantile bilateral striatal necrosis  ( ibsn )  ,  a syndrome of bilateral symmetric spongy degeneration of the caudate nucleaus ,  putamen and globus pallidus characterized by developmental regression ,  choreoathetosis and dystonia progressing to spastic quadriparesis .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1  ( pch1 )  ,  also known as norman's disease ,  is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of autosomal recessive disorders with a prenatal onset characterized by diffuse muscular atrophy secondary to pontocerebellar hypoplasia and spinal cord anterior horn cell degeneration resulting in early death .
oligomeganephronia is a developmental anomaly of the kidneys ,  and the most severe form of renal hypoplasia ,  characterized by a reduction of 80% in nephron number and a marked hypertrophy of the glomeruli and tubules .
permanent congenital hypothyroidism is a type of congenital hypothyroidism  ( ch )  ,  a thyroid hormone deficiency present from birth .
primary congenital hypothyroidism is a type of permanent congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth .
central or secondary congenital hypothyroidism is a type of permanent congenital hypothyroidism characterized by permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth and secondary to a disorder in the thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )   -  thyrotropin - releasing hormone  ( trh )  system .
hypothyroidism due to mutations in transcription factors involved in pituitary development or function is a type of central congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid deficiency that is present from birth ,  characterized by low levels of thyroid hormones caused by disorders in the development or function of the pituitary .
peripheral hypothyroidism is a type of permanent congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth ,  that results from peripheral defects in thyroid hormone metabolism .
hypotrichosis - intellectual disability ,  lopes type is characterised by hypotrichosis ,  syndactyly ,  intellectual deficit and early eruption of teeth .
multiple system atrophy ,  cerebellar type  ( msa - c )  is a form of multiple system atrophy  ( msa )  with predominant cerebellar features  ( gait and limb ataxia ,  oculomotor dysfunction ,  and dysarthria )  .
breast carcinoma that has developed in relatives of patients with history of breast carcinoma .
toxic oil syndrome is a rare intoxication ,  due to consumption of a rapeseed oil denatured with aniline 2% ,  characterized by generalized vascular lesions affecting all organs and vessels  ( including veins and arteries )  and presenting with severe incapacitating myalgias ,  marked peripheral eosinophilia and pulmonary infiltrates .
autoimmune polyendocrinopathy type 3 is a rare ,  endocrine disease characterized by autoimmune thyroid disease associated with at least one other autoimmune disease ,  such as type i diabetes mellitus ,  chronic atrophic gastritis ,  pernicious anemia ,  vitiligo ,  alopecia ,  or myasthenia gravis ,  but excluding addison disease .
progressive sensorineural hearing loss  -  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is an extremely rare disorder described in one family to date that is characterized by progressive ,  late onset ,  autosomal dominant sensorineural hearing loss ,  qt interval prolongation ,  and mild cardiac hypertrophy .
hughes - stovin syndrome  ( hss )  is a life - threatening disorder ,  believed to be a cardiovascular clinical variant manifestation of behc'et's disease  ( bd )  .
fusariosis describes a superficial ,  locally invasive ,  disseminated infection with the pathogenic fungus species ,  fusarium ,  often found in soil and water ,  which is mainly transmitted to humans through traumatic inoculation and that manifests with keratitis ,  onychomycosis and less frequently peritonitis and cellulitis .
marburg acute multiple sclerosis is a rare variant of multiple sclerosis characterized by a rapidly progressive ,  aggressive form of multiple sclerosis with numerous large multifocal demyelinating lesions in deep white matter on cerebral mri that usually leads to severe disability or death within weeks to months without remission .
tumefactive multiple sclerosis is characterized by a tumor - like lesion larger than two centimeters and signs and symptoms similar to those of a brain tumor .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2m  ( cmt2m )  is a form of axonal charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  a peripheral motor and sensory neuropathy .
heart - hand syndrome refers to a group of congenital disorders characterized by malformations of the upper limbs and heart .
dysmorphism - short stature - deafness - disorder of sex development syndrome is characterized by dysmorphism  ( including facial asymmetry ,  arched eyebrows ,  hypertelorism ,  broad and flat nasal bridge ,  microtia ,  small nose with anteverted nostrils ,  micrognathia )  ,  deafness ,  cleft palate ,  male pseudohermaphroditism ,  and growth and psychomotor retardation .
an instance of dermis elastic tissue disorder that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
late - onset focal dermal elastosis is a rare ,  acquired ,  dermis elastic tissue disorder characterized by a pseudoxanthoma elasticum - like papular eruption consisting of multiple ,  slowly progressive ,  asymptomatic ,  2 - 5 mm ,  white to yellowish ,  non - follicular papules  ( that tend to form cobblestone plaques )  predominantly distributed over the neck ,  axillae and flexural areas ,  with no systemic involvement .
linear focal elastosis is a rare ,  acquired ,  dermis elastic tissue disorder characterized by asymptomatic ,  palpable ,  hypertrophic or atrophic ,  yellowish or red ,  indurated ,  horizontal ,  striae - like linear plaques distributed symmetrically across the mid and lower back .
elastoderma is a rare condition that affects the skin .
a benign ,  slow - growing tumor arising from the soft tissues usually in the mid - thoracic region of the elderly .
a nonheritable form of pseudoxanthoma elasticum  ( pxe )  ,  lacking the retinal and vascular stigmata associated with the inherited form of the disorder ,  but having skin lesions that are clinically ,  histologically ,  and ultrastructurally similar to those seen in the inherited type .
an acquired form of collagenoma that appears in childhood .
primary anetoderma is a rare skin disease characterized by loss of elastin tissue resulting in localized areas of flaccid skin in the absence of a secondary cause .
familial anetoderma is an extremely rare genetic skin disease characterized by loss of elastin tissue leading to localized areas of flaccid skin and a family history of the disorder .
an instance of cutis laxa that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
white fibrous papulosis of the neck  ( wfpn )  is a rare ,  acquired ,  dermal elastic tissue disorder characterized by multiple ,  2 - 3 mm sized ,  non - confluent ,  asymptomatic ,  white or pale - colored ,  non - follicular ,  firm papular lesions occurring predominantly on the lateral or posterior aspects of the neck .
pseudoxanthoma elasticum - like papillary dermal elastolysis  ( pxe - pde )  is a rare ,  acquired ,  idiopathic dermal tissue disorder characterized by numerous ,  asymptomatic ,  2 - 3 mm ,  yellowish ,  non - follicular papules that tend to converge into cobblestone - like plaques which are distributed symmetrically over the posterior neck ,  supraclavicular region ,  axillae ,  and sometimes abdomen .
cold autoimmune hemolytic anemia comprises two types of autoimmune hemolytic anemia  ( aiha )  defined by the presence of cold autoantibodies  ( autoantibodies which are active at temperatures below 30b0c ) : cold agglutinin disease  ( cad )  ,  which is the more common ,  and paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria  ( pch )  .
idiopathic hypersomnia with long sleep time is a sleep disorder characterized by good quality night rest of 10 hours or more ,  excessive daytime drowsiness that is more or less continual with long episodes of non - restorative sleep ,  and difficult waking with sleep drunkenness or sleep inertia .
idiopathic hypersomnia without long sleep time is a sleep disorder characterized almost entirely by constant excessive daytime drowsiness lasting more than 3 months ,  with involuntary more or less restorative daytime naps .
foodborne botulism is the most common form of botulism ,  a rare acquired neuromuscular junction disease with descending flaccid paralysis due to botulinum neurotoxins  ( bonts )  .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2b5 is a rare axonal hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by infantile onset of slowly progressive distal motor weakness and atrophy  ( more severe in legs and moderate in arms )  with mildly delayed motor development ,  hypotonia ,  and distal sensory impairment of all sensory modalities .
virus - associated trichodysplasia spinulosa is a rare infectious skin disease characterized by the development of follicular papules with keratin spicules in various parts of the body ,  predominantly in the face  ( e .g .
the newly described 5q14 .3 microdeletion syndrome includes severe intellectual deficit with no speech ,  stereotypic movements and epilepsy .
ptosis  -  upper ocular movement limitation  -  absence of lacrimal punctum is a recently described association of absence of the lower lid lacrimal punctum ,  bilateral ptosis ,  elevation deficiency of both eyes and mild facial dysmorphism .
the newly described 8q12 microduplication syndrome is associated with unusual and characteristic multi - organ clinical features ,  which include hearing loss ,  congenital heart defects ,  intellectual disability ,  hypotonia in infancy ,  and duane anomaly .
the newly described 2q23 .1 microdeletion syndrome includes severe intellectual deficit with pronounced speech delay ,  behavioral abnormalities including hyperactivity and inappropriate laughter ,  short stature and seizures .
polyvalvular heart disease syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by the combination of polyvalvular heart disease ,  short stature ,  facial anomalies and intellectual deficit .
the newly described 5q35 microduplication syndrome is associated with microcephaly ,  short stature ,  developmental delay and delayed bone maturation .
isolated agammaglobulinemia  ( ia )  is the non - syndromic form of agammaglobulinemia ,  a primary immunodeficiency disease ,  and is characterized by deficient gamma globulins and associated predisposition to frequent and recurrent infections from infancy .
a agammaglobulinemia that is part of a larger syndrome .
type b insulin - resistance syndrome belongs to the group of extreme insulin - resistance syndromes  ( which includes leprechaunism ,  the lipodystrophies ,  rabson - mendenhall syndrome ,  and type a insulin resistance syndrome )  and occurs in the context of immune dysfunction .
a lung disorder caused by inhalation of asbestos fibers .
isotretinoin embryopathy is an association of malformations caused by the teratogenic effect of isotretinoin ,  an oral synthetic vitamin a derivative ,  which is used to treat severe recalcitrant cystic acne .
aform of botulism  ( see this term )  ,  a rare acquired neuromuscular junction disease ,  characterized by descending flaccid paralysis caused by botulinum neurotoxins  ( bonts )  ,  produced in vivo leading to toxin - mediated infection .
ehlers - danlos ,  vascular - like type is an adult - onset form of ehlers - danlos syndrome characterized by spontaneous dissection of medium - sized arteries during young adulthood ,  including mainly the iliac ,  femoral ,  and renal arteries .
ehlers - danlos / osteogenesis imperfecta syndrome is an association of the features of ehlers - danlos syndrome and osteogenesis imperfecta ,  characterized by generalized joint hypermobility and dislocations ,  skin hyperextensibility and / or translucency ,  and easy bruising as the predominant clinical features ,  while being invariably associated with mild signs of osteogenesis imperfecta ,  including short stature ,  blue sclera ,  and osteopenia or fractures .
pachyonychia congenita  ( pc )  is a rare genodermatosis predominantly featuring painful palmoplantar keratoderma ,  thickened nails ,  cysts and whitish oral mucosa .
dracunculiasis  ( guinea worm disease )  is a neglected tropical disease  ( ntd )  characterized by a painful burning skin lesion from which the dracunculus medinensis parasite emerges approximately 1 year after infection resulting from consumption of unsafe drinking water containing parasite - infected copepods  ( cyclops spp . ,  microcrustacea also called water fleas )  .
a neoplastic syndrome most often caused by mutations in the hsnf5 / ini1 tumor suppressor gene .
an autoimmune disorder ,  similar to systemic lupus erythematosus ,  that is caused by certain drugs .
an intracranial aneurysm with a characteristic rounded shape ;  the most common form of cerebral aneurysm .
a syndrome characterized by congenital ,  bilateral sensorineural hearing loss that is mild to moderate in the low frequencies and severe to profound in the higher frequencies ,  no abnormalities in the vestibular system ,  and retinitis pigmentosa .
a syndrome characterized by postlingual progressive hearing loss ,  abnormalities in the vestibular system ,  and onset of retinitis pigmentosa symptoms usually by the second decade of life .
beta - thalassemia  ( bt )  major is a severe early - onset form of bt characterized by severe anemia requiring regular red blood cell transfusions .
beta - thalassemia  ( bt )  intermedia is a form of bt characterized by mild to moderate anemia which does not or only occasionally requires transfusion .
beta - thalassemias associated with hemoglobin  ( hb )  anomalies result in a variable clinical spectrum ,  ranging from asymptomatic to severe ,  depending on the severity of the thalassemia mutation and on the type of the hb anomaly  [ hereditary persistence of fetal hb ,  delta - beta - thalassemia ,  hb c  -  beta - thalassemia ,  hb e  -  beta - thalassemia and hb s  -  beta - thalassemia  ]  .
delta - beta - thalassemia is a form of beta - thalassemia characterized by decreased or absent synthesis of the delta -  and beta - globin chains with a compensatory increase in expression of fetal gamma - chain synthesis .
hemoglobin c  -  beta - thalassemia  ( hbc  -  bt )  is a form of beta - thalassemia resulting in moderate hemolytic anemia .
hemoglobin e  -  beta - thalassemia  ( hbe  -  bt )  is a form of beta - thalassemia that results in a mild to severe clinical presentation ranging from a condition indistinguishable from beta - thalassemia major to a mild form of beta - thalassemia intermedia .
beta - thalassemias with other manifestations are a group of beta - thalassemias associated with another disorder .
paraparetic variant of guillain - barr syndrome is a rare variant of guillain - barr syndrome characterized by isolated leg weakness ,  areflexia and radicular leg pain that may simulate a cauda equina or spinal cord syndrome .
acute pandysautonomia is a rare variant of guillain - barr syndrome characterized by acute post - ganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic failure presenting several weeks after acute infection with gastrointestinal symptoms  ( abdominal pain ,  vomiting ,  constipation ,  diarrhea ,  gastroparesis ,  ileus )  ,  orthostatic hypotension ,  erectile dysfunction ,  urinary frequency ,  urgency or retention ,  vasomotor instability with acrocyanosis and reduced salivation ,  lacrimation and sweating .
acute sensory ataxic neuropathy is a rare variant of guillain - barr syndrome characterized by acute onset monophasic sensory neuropathy with diminished or absent tendon reflexes ,  loss of proprioception ,  positive romberg sign and nerve conduction features of demyelination .
hermansky - pudlak syndrome with pulmonary fibrosis as a complication includes two types  ( hps - 1 and hps - 4 )  of hermansky - pudlak syndrome  ( hps )  ,  a multi - system disorder characterized by oculocutaneous albinism ,  bleeding diathesis and ,  in some cases ,  pulmonary fibrosis or granulomatous colitis .
hermansky - pudlak syndrome without pulmonary fibrosis as a complication includes three relatively mild types  ( hps - 3 ,  hps - 5 and hps - 6 )  of hermansky - pudlak syndrome  ( hps )  ,  a multi - system disorder characterized by ocular or oculocutaneous albinism ,  bleeding diathesis and ,  in some cases ,  granulomatous colitis .
primary unilateral adrenal hyperplasia  ( puah )  is a surgically - correctable form of primary  ( hyper )  aldosteronism  ( pa )  characterized by renin suppression ,  unilateral aldosterone hypersecretion ,  and moderate to severe hypertension secondary to hyperplasia of the adrenal gland .
an adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces aldosterone .
ectopic aldosterone - producing tumor is an extremely rare aldosterone - producing neoplasm composed of aberrant adrenocortical tissue located outside the adrenal glands  ( e .g .
surgically correctable forms of primary aldosteronism  ( also known as primary hyperaldosteronism )  are characterized by unilateral aldosterone hypersecretion and renin suppression ,  associated with varying degrees of hypertension and hypokalemia .
epibulbar lipodermoid b preauricular appendages b polythelia is a branchial arch syndrome described in seven sibs of one danish family and characterized by supernumerary nipples  ( polythelia )  ,  preauricular appendages and often binocular epibulbar lipodermoids or unilateral subconjunctival lipodermoids .
kabuki syndrome  ( ks )  is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by typical facial features ,  skeletal anomalies ,  mild to moderate intellectual disability and postnatal growth deficiency .
this term refers to a group of diseases characterized by alpha - thalassemia and an associated disorder .
kallmann syndrome with cardiopathy is characterised by hypogonadotropic hypogonadism associated with gonadotropin - releasing hormone  ( gnrh )  deficiency ,  anosmia or hyposmia  ( with hypoplasia or aplasia of the olfactory bulbs )  and complex congenital cardiac malformations  ( double - outlet right ventricle ,  dilated cardiomyopathy ,  right aortic arch )  .
a genetic condition characterized by long bone sclerosis and thickening ,  short stature ,  and head and eye anomalies .
rare genetic vascular disease .
a punctate palmoplantar keratoderma that is not part of a larger syndrome .
klippel - feil syndrome is characterised by improper segmentation of cervical segments resulting in congenitally fused cervical vertebrae .
muscular pseudohypertropy  -  hypothyroidism ,  also known as kocher - debre - semelaigne syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by pseudohypertrophy of muscles due to longstanding hypothyroidism .
kousseff syndrome is characterized by the association of conotruncal heart defects ,  myelomeningocele and craniofacial dysmorphism similar to that seen in monosomy 22q11 .
bronchogenic cysts  ( bcs )  are congenital malformations resulting from abnormal budding of the foregut and are most commonly found in the mediastinum .
an alteration in limb growth caused by congenital vascular malformations in childhood
familial hyperaldosteronism  ( fh )  is the heritable form of primary aldosteronism  ( pa )  which comprises three identified subtypes to date: fh type i  ( fh - i )  characterized by early - onset hypertension ,  glucocorticoid remediable adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  - dependent hyperaldosteronism ,  variable hypokalemia ,  and overproduction of 18 - oxocortisol and 18 - hydroxycortisol ;  fh type ii  ( fh - ii )  characterized by hypertension of varying severity and hyperaldosteronism not suppressible by dexamethasone ;  and fh type iii  ( fh - iii )  characterized by profound hypokalemia ,  early - onset severe hypertension ,  non glucocorticoid - remediable hyperaldosteronism ,  and overproduction of 18 - oxocortisol and 18 - hydroxycortisol .
trisomy 9p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial or complete trisomy of the short arm of chromosome 9 ,  with a wide phenotypic variablility ,  typically characterized by intellectual disability ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
limb body wall complex  ( lbwc )  is characterized by severe multiple congenital anomalies in the fetus with exencephaly / encephalocele ,  thoraco -  and / or abdominoschisis  ( anterior body wall defects )  and limb defects ,  with or without facial clefts .
duplication of the urethra is a rare congenital genitourinary anomaly ,  encompassing a wide spectrum of anatomic variants in which the urethra is partially or totally duplicated ,  which may be asymptomatic or cause symptoms such as incontinence ,  recurrent urinary infections and difficulty urinating .
a rare congenital malformation in the larynx .
lennox - gastaut syndrome  ( lgs )  belongs to the group of severe childhood epileptic encephalopathies .
hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia  ( hed )  is a genetic disorder of ectoderm development characterized by malformation of ectodermal structures such as skin ,  hair ,  teeth and sweat glands .
autosomal recessive lymphoproliferative disease is a rare combined t and b cell immunodeficiency with a predisposition to lymphoproliferative syndrome .
a disorder characterized by proliferation of lymphocytes at various stages of differentiation .
atypical hypotonia - cystinuria syndrome is a form of hypotonia - cystinuria type 1 syndrome characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability in addition to classic hypotonia - cystinuria syndrome phenotype  ( cystinuria type 1 ,  generalised hypotonia ,  poor feeding ,  growth retardation ,  and minor facial dysmorphism )  .
an instance of secondary polycythemia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
immune dysregulation - inflammatory bowel disease - arthritis - recurrent infections syndrome is a rare immune dysregulation disease with immunodeficiency characterized by severe ,  progressive infantile onset inflammatory bowel disease with pancolitis ,  perianal disease  ( ulceration ,  fistulae )  ,  recurrent respiratory ,  genitourinary and cutaneous infections ,  arthritis and a high risk of b - cell lymphoma .
hyperphenylalaninemia  ( hpa )  due to tetrahydrobiopterin  ( bh4 )  deficiency ,  also known as malignant hpa is an amino acid disorder with neonatal onset that is clinically characterized by the classic manifestations of phenylketonuria  ( pka )  and that later on is clinically differentiated by neurologic symptoms such as microcephaly ,  intellectual disability ,  central hypotonia ,  delayed motor development ,  peripheral spasticity and seizures ,  that develop and persist despite an established metabolic control of plasma phenylalanine .
sclerosing mesenteritis  ( sm )  is a rare pathological disease causing inflammation of the adipose tissue of the small bowel mesentery and is commonly associated with abdominal pain ,  diarrhea ,  nausea ,  weight loss ,  bloating and loss of appetite .
leukoencephalopathy - palmoplantar keratoderma syndrome is a rare ,  genetic epidermal disease characterized by early childhood - onset of punctate palmoplantar keratoderma in association with adult - onset leukoencephalopathy manifested by progressive tetrapyramidal syndrome and cognitive deterioration .
primary orthostatic tremor  ( pot )  ,  or ``shaky legs syndrome'' ,  is a rare movement disorder characterized by fast ,  task - specific tremor ,  affecting the legs and trunk while standing .
megacystic - megaureter syndrome is an urinary tract malformation characterized by the presence of a massive primary non - obstructive vesicoureteral reflux and a large capacity ,  smooth ,  thin walled bladder due to the continual recycling of refluxed urine .
a congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism that is not part of a larger syndrome .
neonatal iodine exposure is a rare endocrine disease characterized by the appearance of transient hypothyroidism ,  usually in preterm newborns ,  following long or short - term topical iodine exposure .
leukonychia totalis is a rare nail anomaly disorder characterized by complete white discoloration of the nails .
congenital mirror movement disorder is a condition in which intentional movements of one side of the body are mirrored by involuntary movements of the other side .
glaucoma secondary to spherophakia / ectopia lentis and megalocornea is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic developmental defect of the eye disorder characterized by congenital megalocornea associated with spherophakia and / or ectopia lentis leading to pupillary block and secondary glaucoma .
1q44 microdeletion syndrome is a newly described syndrome associated with facial dysmorphism ,  developmental delay ,  in particular of expressive speech ,  seizures and hypotonia .
psp - pure akinesia with gait freezing  ( psp - pagf )  is an atypical variant of progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease .
psp - corticobasal syndrome  ( psp - cbs )  is an atypical variant of progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease .
psp - progressive non fluent aphasia  ( psp - pnfa )  is an atypical variant of progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease .
loiasis is a form of filariasis  ( see this term )  ,  caused by the parasitic worm loa loa ,  endemic to the forest and savannah regions of central and western africa .
locked - in syndrome  ( lis )  is a neurological condition characterized by the presence of sustained eye opening ,  quadriplegia or quadriparesis ,  anarthria ,  preserved cognitive functioning and a primary code of communication that uses vertical eye movements or blinking .
lowe - kohn - cohen syndrome is an extremely rare anorectal malformation syndrome characterized by imperforate anus ,  closed ano - perineal fistula ,  preauricular skin tag and absent renal abnormalities and pre - axial limb deformities .
primary pulmonary lymphoma  ( ppl )  is a rare lymphoma of the lung ,  defined as a clonal lymphoid proliferation affecting one or both lungs  ( parenchyma and / or bronchi )  in a patient with no detectable extrapulmonary involvement at diagnosis or during the subsequent 3 months .
macrocephaly - short stature - paraplegia syndrome is characterized by macrocephaly and midface hypoplasia ,  intellectual deficit ,  short stature ,  spastic paraplegia and severe central nervous system anomalies  ( hydrocephalus and dandy - walker malformation )  .
central bilateral macrogyria is a neuronal migration disorder characterised by pseudobulbar palsy ,  developmental delay ,  mild mental retardation and epilepsy .
acute fatty liver of pregnancy is a rare but severe complication occurring in the third trimester of pregnancy or in early postpartum period bearing a risk for perinatal and maternal mortality and characterized by jaundice ,  rise of hepatic injuries and evolving to acute liver failure and encephalopathy .
hypo -  and hypermelanotic cutaneous macules - retarded growth - intellectual disability syndrome is a neurocutaneous syndrome characterised by congenital hypomelanotic and hypermelanotic cutaneous macules .
primary ciliary dyskinesia  ( pcd )  is a rare ,  genetically heterogeneous ,  primarily respiratory disorder characterized by chronic upper and lower respiratory tract disease .
split hand - split foot malformation  ( shfm )  refers to a spectrum of genetically and clinically heterogenous terminal limb defect characterized by hypoplasia /  absence of central rays of the hands and feet  ( that can occur in one to all four digits )  ,  median clefts of the hands and /  or feet ,  aplasia and syndactyly ,  with a wide range of severity ranging from malformed central finger /  toe to a lobster claw - like appearance of the hands and feet .
biliary atresia with splenic malformation syndrome  ( basm )  designates the association of biliary atresia and splenic abnormalities  ( mainly polysplenia and less frequently asplenia ,  double spleen )  .
mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder due to nuclear dna anomalies is a group of clinically heterogeneous diseases ,  commonly defined by lack of cellular energy due to defects of oxidative phosphorylation  ( oxphos )  ,  resulting from pathogenic mutations in the nuclear dna .
an abnormality in lung development that is characterized by a multicystic mass resulting from an adenomatous overgrowth of the terminal bronchioles with a consequent reduction of pulmonary alveoli .
conotruncal heart malformations are a group of congenital cardiac outflow tract anomalies that include such defects as tetralogy of fallot ,  pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect ,  double - outlet right ventricle  ( dorv )  ,  double - outlet left ventricle ,  truncus arteriosus and transposition of the great arteries  ( tga )  ,  among others .
mandibuloacral dysplasia  ( mad )  is a rare genetic bone disorder characterized by growth delay ,  postnatal development of craniofacial anomalies including mandibular hypoplasia ,  progressive acral osteolysis ,  mottled or patchy pigmentation ,  skin atrophy ,  and partial or generalized lipodystrophy .
systemic mastocytosis  ( sm )  comprises a heterogeneous group of rare acquired and chronic hematological malignancies that are related to an abnormal proliferation of mast cells in tissue ,  including bone marrow ,  with or without skin involvement .
arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy  ( arvc )  is a heart muscle disease that consists in progressive dystrophy of primarily the right ventricular myocardium with fibro - fatty replacement and ventricular dilation ,  and that is clinically characterized by ventricular arrhythmias and a risk of sudden cardiac death .
infantile mercury poisoning is a rare intoxication affecting children ,  most commonly characterized by erythema of the hands ,  feet and nose ,  edematous ,  painful ,  pink to red ,  desquamating fingers and toes ,  bluish ,  cold and wet extremities ,  excessive sweating ,  irritability ,  photophobia ,  muscle weakness ,  diffuse hypotonia ,  paresthesia ,  hypertension and tachycardia ,  due to elemental ,  organic or inorganic mercury exposure .
sporadic adult - onset ataxia of unknown etiology describes a group of non - hereditary degenerative ataxias characterized by a slowly progressive cerebellar syndrome  ( with ataxia of stance and gait ,  upper limb dysmetria and intention tremor ,  ataxic speech ,  and oculomotor abnormalities )  ,  presenting in adulthood  ( at around 50 years of age )  ,  that is not due to a known cause .
an instance of cerebellar ataxia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
superficial siderosis is a rare neurologic disease characterized by progressive sensorineural hearing loss ,  cerebellar ataxia ,  pyramidal signs ,  and neuroimaging findings revealing hemosiderin deposits in the spinal and cranial leptomeninges and subpial layer .
a rare acute systemic infection caused by the inhalation of bacillus anthracis spores  ( e .g .
generalized pustular psoriasis is a severe inflammatory skin disease that can be life - threatening and that is characterized by recurrent episodes of high fever ,  fatigue ,  episodic erythematous cutaneous eruptions with sterile cutaneous pustules formation on various parts of the body ,  and neutrophil leukocytosis .
autosomal dominant form of secondary polycythemia .
acute neonatal citrullinemia type i is a severe form of citrullinemia type 1 characterized biologically by hyperammonemia and clinically by progressive lethargy ,  poor feeding and vomiting ,  seizures and possible loss of consciousness ,  within one to a few days of birth ,  with variable signs of increased intracranial pressure .
adult - onset citrullinemia type i is a form of citrullinemia type i characterized clinically by adult onset of symptoms including variable hyperammonemia and less striking neurological findings which may include intense headache ,  scotomas ,  migraine - like episodes ,  ataxia ,  slurred speech ,  lethargy and drowsiness .
citrin deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive urea cycle defect characterized clinically by recurring episodes of hyperammonemia and associated neuropsychiatric symptoms in the adult - onset form  ( citrullinemia type ii )  ,  and by transient cholestasis and variable hepatic dysfunction in the neonatal form  ( neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis due to citrin deficiency )  .
citrullinemia type ii is a severe subtype of citrin deficiency characterized clinically by adult onset  ( 20 and 50 years of age )  ,  recurrent episodes of hyperammonemia and associated neuropsychiatric symptoms such as nocturnal delirium ,  confusion ,  restlessness ,  disorientation ,  drowsiness ,  memory loss ,  abnormal behavior  ( aggression ,  irritability ,  and hyperactivity )  ,  seizures ,  and coma .
a rare ,  genetic form of hypophosphatasia  ( hpp )  characterized by markedly impaired bone mineralization in utero due to reduced activity of serum alkaline phosphatase  ( alp )  and causing stillbirth or respiratory failure within days of birth .
prenatal benign hypophosphatasia  ( pb - hpp )  is a very rare form of hypophosphatasia characterized by prenatal skeletal manifestations  ( limb shortening and bowing )  that slowly resolve spontaneously and later develop into the milder infantile ,  childhood or adult forms of the disease .
odontohypophosphatasia  ( odonto - hpp )  is the least severe form of hypophosphatasia characterized by premature exfoliation of primary and / or permanent teeth and / or severe dental caries ,  in the absence of skeletal system abnormalities .
a congenital abnormality in which the occipitofrontal circumference is greater than two standard deviations above the mean for a given age .
inflammatory myopathy with abundant macrophages is a rare inflammatory myopathy characterized by diffuse destructive infiltration of cd68 +  macrophages into the fascia rather than muscle fibers in muscle biopsies ,  proximal muscle weakness and myalgia with or without scaly dermatomyositis - like or atypical non - dermatomyositis - like skin lesions ,  elevation of creatine kinase levels and thickening of muscle fascia in muscle mri .
a lipoma usually occurring in the extremities of young children  ( usually boys )  .
x - linked form of cerebellar ataxia .
a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by developmental abnormalities of the skin ,  sweat glands ,  hair and nails .
primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy  ( pho )  is a genetically and clinically heterogeneous inherited disorder characterized by digital clubbing and osteoarthropathy ,  with variable features of pachydermia ,  delayed closure of the fontanels ,  and congenital heart disease .
juvenile huntington disease  ( jhd )  is a form of huntington disease  ( hd )  ,  characterized by onset of signs and symptoms before 20 years of age .
melhem - fahl syndrome was described in two siblings born to consanguineous parents in 1985 and was characterized by the presence of 15 dorsal vertebrae and rib pairs .
any of the forms of deficiency anemia that have a rare incidence .
an instance of deficiency anemia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
isolated delta - storage pool disease is a rare ,  isolated ,  constitutional thrombocytopenia disorder characterized by defective formation and / or malfunction of platelet dense granules ,  as well as melanosomes in skin cells ,  resulting in variable manifestations ranging from mild bleeding and easy bruising to moderate mucous / cutaneous hemorrhagic diathesis and bleeding complications after surgery .
a hemorrhagic disorder due to a platelet anomaly which develops after birth .
an instance of rare thrombotic disorder due to a coagulation factors defect that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
lower limb malformation - hypospadias syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by severe ,  uni -  or bilateral lower limb malformations  ( incl .
fibrous dysplasia of bone is a congenital non - hereditary benign bone disease ,  where normal bone is replaced by a fibrous - like tissue with immature osteogenesis .
a generally slow growing tumor attached to the dura mater .
frontonasal dysplasia caused by mutations in the alx3 gene ,  encoding homeobox protein aristaless - like 3 .
logopenic progressive aphasia  ( lv - ppa )  is a form of primary progressive aphasia  ( ppa )  ,  characterized by impaired single - word retrieval and naming and impaired repetition with spared single - word comprehension and object knowledge .
either a rare isolated neoplasm or a syndrome with neoplasm as a major feature .
autosomal dominant optic atrophy and peripheral neuropathy  ( adoapn )  is a form of autosomal dominant optic atrophy  ( adoa )  ,  characterized by progressive and isolated visual loss in the first decade of life ,  decreased reflexes in the lower limbs and a mild cerebellar stance .
a rare type of stickler syndrome characterized by moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss ,  high myopia ,  retinal degeneration ,  vitreous anomalies ,  and epiphyseal dysplasia .
multiple epiphyseal dysplasias  ( med / edms )  are characterized by epiphyseal anomalies causing joint pain early in life ,  recurrent osteochondritis and early arthrosis .
micro syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder caracterised by ocular and neurodevelopmental defects and by microgenitalia .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 1 is an uniparental disomy of paternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only father is a carrier .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 1 is an uniparental disomy of maternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only mother is a carrier .
2q31 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a well - defined and clinically recognisable syndrome characterized by moderate to severe developmental delay ,  short stature ,  facial dysmorphism and variable limb defects .
2q33 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 2 ,  with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  moderate to severe developmental delay  ( particularly speech )  ,  feeding difficulties ,  failure to thrive ,  hypotonia ,  thin ,  sparse hair ,  various dental abnormalities and cleft / high - arched palate .
gene expression cluster 5 as determined by recognition of outliers by sampling ends  ( rose )  in high - risk b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
6p22 microdeletion syndrome is a newly described syndrome associated with a variable clinical phenotype including developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism ,  short neck and diverse malformations .
8p11 .2 deletion syndrome is a contiguous gene syndrome characterized by the association of congenital spherocytosis ,  dysmorphic features ,  growth delay and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
8p23 .1 deletion involves a partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 8 characterized by low birth weight ,  postnatal growth deficiency ,  mild intellectual deficit ,  hyperactivity ,  craniofacial abnormalities ,  and congenital heart defects .
8p23 .1 duplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 8 ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  principally characterized by mild to moderate developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  mild facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
autosomal recessive primary microcephaly  ( mcph )  is a rare genetically heterogeneous disorder of neurogenic brain development characterized by reduced head circumference at birth with no gross anomalies of brain architecture and variable degrees of intellectual impairment .
idiopathic recurrent pericarditis is a rare autoinflammatory syndrome defined as recurrence of pericardial inflammation of unknown origin following the first episode of acute pericarditis and a symptom - free interval of 4 - 6 weeks or longer .
a skin hypersensitivity reaction due to exposure to a pharmacologic substance that is characterized by raised purpuric lesions ,  red macules ,  hemorrhagic blisters and ulcerations .
sickle beta thalassemia is an inherited condition that affects hemoglobin ,  the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen to different parts of the body .it is a type of sickle cell disease .
junctional epidermolysis bullosa ,  localized non - herlitz - type is a form of non - herlitz junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb - nh )  characterized by localized blistering ,  and dystrophic or absent nails .
46 , xy partial gonadal dysgenesis  ( 46 , xy pgd )  is a disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  associated with anomalies in gonadal development that results in genital ambiguity of variable degree ranging from almost female phenotype to almost male phenotype in a patient carrying a male 46 , xy karyotype .
hyperzincemia and hypercalprotectinemia is a rare inborn error of zinc metabolism characterized by recurrent infections ,  hepatosplenomegaly ,  anemia  ( unresponsive to iron supplementation )  and chronic systemic inflammation in the presence of high plasma concentrations of zinc and calprotectin .
congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother ,  or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances .
any of the forms of neuroepithelial neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
an anaplastic astrocytoma  ( grade iii astrocytic tumor )  or glioblastoma  ( grade iv astrocytic tumor )  .
a rare histological variant of glioblastoma  ( who grade iv )  characterized by a biphasic tissue pattern with alternating areas displaying glial and mesenchymal differentiation  ( who )  .
a rare histological variant of glioblastoma  ( who grade iv )  with a predominance of bizarre ,  multinucleated giant cells ,  an occasionally abundant stromal reticulin network ,  and a high frequency of tp53 mutations .
a diffuse glial tumor which infiltrates the brain extensively ,  involving more than two lobes .
anaplastic astrocytoma is a rare ,  high - grade ,  malignant glial tumor ,  histologically characterized by abundance of pleomorphic astrocytes and multiple mitotic figures ,  often associated with diffuse infiltration of the surrounding tissue ,  considerable edema and mass effect and involvement of the contralateral brain .
a low - grade  ( who grade ii )  astrocytic neoplasm .
a rare variant of diffuse astrocytoma .
the most frequent histological variant of diffuse astrocytoma .
a rare variant of diffuse astrocytoma .
a who grade ll astrocytic tumor with a relatively favorable prognosis .
pilocytic astrocytoma is a rare subtype of low - grade glioma of the central nervous system characterized by a well circumscribed ,  often cystic ,  brain tumor with a discrete mural nodule and long ,  hair - like projections that extend from the neoplastic astrocytes .
an astrocytic tumor of uncertain relation to pilocytic astrocytoma .
a benign ,  slowly growing tumor  ( who grade i )  typically arising in the wall of the lateral ventricles and composed of large ganglioid astrocytes .
a well - differentiated  ( who grade ii )  ,  diffusely infiltrating neuroglial tumor ,  typically located in the cerebral hemispheres .
a who grade iii oligodendroglioma with focal or diffuse malignant morphologic features  ( prominent nuclear pleomorphism ,  mitoses ,  and increased cellularity )  .
a who grade ii ,  slow growing tumor of children and young adults ,  usually located intraventricularly .
myxopapillary ependymoma  ( mepn )  describes a slow growing ependymoma located almost exclusively in the conus medullaris - cauda equina - filum terminale region of the spinal cord ,  presenting in all age groups ,  and manifesting with variable symptoms such as neck pain ,  vomiting and unsteady gait and metastasis .
anaplastic ependymoma is a rare ,  malignant type of ependymoma that most often arises in the supratentorial region of the brain of children and young adults and that manifests with variable symptoms including headaches ,  nausea ,  vision impairment ,  memory loss and difficulty walking .
a who grade ii tumor composed of a conspicuous mixture of two distinct neoplastic cell types morphologically resembling the tumor cells in oligodendroglioma and diffuse astrocytoma .
an oligoastrocytoma characterized by the presence of increased cellularity ,  nuclear atypia ,  pleomorphism ,  and high mitotic activity .
angiocentric glioma  ( ag )  is an extremely rare slow - growing glial neoplasm of the central nervous system ,  usually arising in a superficial location in the cerebrum ,  affecting all ages and both sexes ,  and characterized by intractable seizures and headaches ,  with most cases being cured by surgical incision alone and therefore having a good prognosis .
a rare ,  slow - growing neuroepithelial neoplasm of uncertain origin affecting adults .
astroblastoma is a very rare glial neoplasm of the central nervous system ,  most often with an intra - axial peripheral supratentorial location in one hemisphere of the frontal or parietal lobes and usually presenting in infants and young adults with symptoms of vomiting ,  loss of consciousness ,  epileptic seizures and headaches .
a medulloblastoma composed of sheets of large cells mixed with cells characterized by marked nuclear pleomorphism and high mitotic activity .
medulloblastoma with extensive nodularity  ( mben )  is a histological variant of medulloblastoma ,  an embryonic malignancy ,  most often located in the inferior medullary velum and then growing into the fourth ventricle ,  and presenting in infants and young children with symptoms of increased intracranial pressure such as headache ,  listlessness ,  vomiting ,  diplopia and papilledema .
desmoplastic / nodular medulloblastoma is a histological variant of medulloblastoma ,  an embryonic malignancy ,  often located in one of the cerebellar hemispheres ,  occurring most frequently in adults and manifesting with symptoms such as vomiting and headache .
classic medulloblastoma is a histological variant of medulloblastoma ,  an embryonic malignancy ,  having a midline location ,  occurring most often in children and manifesting with variable symptoms such as headaches ,  nausea ,  vomiting and ataxia .
a rare ewing sarcoma / peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor that affects the central nervous system either as a primary dural neoplasm or by direct extension from adjacent soft tissues or bone .
ependymoblastoma is a rare type of primitive neuroectodermal tumor  ( pnet )  that usually occurs in young children under the age of 2 and is histologically distinguished by the production of ependymoblastic rosettes .
an intraventricular papillary neoplasm that originates from the choroid plexus epithelium .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the choroid plexus .
microcephaly - seizures - intellectual disability - heart disease syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  a cardiac anomaly ,  micropenis ,  hypothyroidism ,  epileptic seizures ,  and skeletal anomalies .
pineoblastoma is a rare ,  malignant type of supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumor  ( spnet )  ,  found mainly in children  ( less than 10% of cases are reported in adults )  ,  and located in the pineal region of the brain but that can metastasize along the neuroaxis .
pineocytoma is the least aggressive form of pineal parenchymal tumors ,  manifesting with symptoms such as parinaud's syndrome  ( a group of eye movement abnormalities and pupil dysfunction ,  including deficiency in upward - gaze and convergence - retraction nystagmus )  ,  headaches ,  balance impairment ,  urinary incontinence ,  and changes in mood and that are not known to disseminate in a diffuse manner .
papillary tumor of the pineal region  ( ptpr )  is a very rare neoplasm of the pineal region that is thought to arise from the specialized ependymocytes of the subcommissural organ and that manifests with visual disturbances ,  headaches ,  loss of coordination and balance ,  nausea and vomiting due to obstructive hydrocephalus .
pineal parenchymal tumor of intermediate differentiation  ( pptid )  describes a rare type of pineal parenchymal tumor  ( ppt )  of intermediate - grade malignancy manifesting with visual disturbances ,  headaches ,  loss of coordination and balance ,  nausea and vomiting due to obstructive hydrocephalus ,  and that is classified as either grade ii pptid or grade iii pptid according to the degree of neuronal differentiation and mitotic activity .
extraventricular neurocytoma  ( evn )  ,  a variant of central neurocytoma ,  is a rare neuronal neoplasm ,  composed of round cells with neuronal differentiation ,  which is located outside of the ventricular system ,  usually within the spinal cord or cerebral hemispheres and that manifests with headache ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  complex partial seizures or focal neurological deficits .
a group of central nervous system neoplasms with a variable amount of neuronal and ,  less consistently ,  glial differentiation .
a well differentiated ,  slow growing neuroepithelial neoplasm composed of neoplastic ,  mature ganglion cells .
desmoplastic infantile astrocytoma / ganglioglioma are mixed neuronal - glial tumors representing a histological spectrum of the same tumor .
a well differentiated ,  slow growing neuroepithelial neoplasm composed of neoplastic ,  mature ganglion cells and neoplastic glial cells .
a who grade iii neuroepithelial neoplasm composed of neoplastic ,  mature ganglion cells and anaplastic glial cells .
a who grade i ,  indolent and relatively circumscribed brain tumor .
a central nervous system neoplasm mostly occurring in the fourth ventricle region .
a malignant germ cell tumor of the central nervous system composed of primitive - appearing epithelial cells  -  putatively representing yolk sac endoderm  -  set in a loose ,  variably cellular ,  and often conspicuously myxoid matrix ,  resembling extra - embryonic mesoblast .
a malignant germ cell tumor of the central nervous system characterized by extra - embryonic differentiation along trophoblastic lines .
a malignant germ cell tumor of the central nervous system characterized by the presence of at least two types of germ cell neoplasia .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the meninges .
diffuse leptomeningeal melanocytosis is a rare tumor of meninges arising from leptomeningeal melanocytes ,  characterized by diffuse infiltration of the leptomeninges  ( pia mater and arachnoidea )  anywhere in the central nervous system .
a usually well differentiated melanocytic neoplasm arising from the meninges .
a melanoma that affects the central nervous system .
hemangioblastoma is a rare ,  benign ,  highly vascularized tumor of the central nervous system ,  most often located in the cerebellum or spinal cord ,  presenting in adulthood and manifesting with dizziness ,  nausea ,  malaise ,  headache ,  bladder or bowel dysfunction ,  numbness ,  weakness and pain in the upper or lower extremities ,  and often associated with von hippel - lindau disease  ( vhl )  .
microcephaly - cleft palate - abnormal retinal pigmentation syndrome is a rare orofacial clefting syndrome characterized by microcephaly ,  cleft of the secondary palate and other variable abnormalities ,  including abnormal retinal pigmentation ,  facial dysmorphism with hypotelorism and maxillary hypoplasia .
a very rare malignant tumor with morphologic features similar to those of benign perineurioma of soft tissue along with hypercellularity ,  nuclear atypia ,  hyperchromasia ,  and a high mitotic rate .
vestibular schwannoma is a rare tumor of the posterior fossa originating in the schwann cells of the vestibular transitional zone of the vestibulocochlear nerve that can be benign ,  small ,  slow growing and asymptomatic or large ,  faster growing and aggressive and potentially fatal ,  presenting with symptoms of hearing and balance impairment ,  vertigo ,  ataxia ,  headache and fifth ,  sixth or seventh cranial nerve dysfunction and facial numbness .
an intraneural or extraneural neoplasm arising from nerve tissues and neural sheaths .
malignant triton tumor  ( mtt )  is a rare aggressive subtype of malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor  ( mpnst )  characterized histopathologically by focal rhabdomyoblastic differentiation .
microcephaly - brain defect - spasticity - hypernatremia syndrome is a rare congenital genetic syndrome with a central nervous system malformation as a major feature characterized by microcephaly ,  hypertonia ,  developmental delay and cognitive impairment ,  swallowing difficulty ,  hypernatremia ,  and hypoplasia of the frontal parts and fusion of the lateral ventricles on brain mri .
pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 2  ( pch2 )  is the most common subtype of pontocerebellar hypoplasia characterized by neonatal onset and a lack of voluntary motor development and later progressive microencephaly ,  generalized clonus ,  development of chorea and spasticity .
microcephaly - microcornea syndrome ,  seemanova type is characterised by microcephaly and brachycephaly ,  eye anomalies  ( microphthalmia ,  microcornea ,  congenital cataract )  ,  hypogenitalism ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  growth retardation and progressive spasticity .
an osteochondrodysplasia that results in abnormalities of bone growth located in vertebral column ,  located in epiphysis ,  located in metaphysis .
microcornea - corectopia - macular hypoplasia syndrome is characterised by microcornea ,  which may also be accompanied by corectopia and macular hypoplasia .
spondylometaphyseal dysplasias are a heterogeneous group of disorders associated with walking and growth disturbances that become evident during the second year of life .
anophthalmia and microphthalmia describe ,  respectively ,  the absence of an eye and the presence of a small eye within the orbit .
19p13 .12 microdeletion syndrome is a newly described syndrome characterized by moderate to severe developmental delay ,  language delay ,  bilateral sensorineural and / or conductive hearing loss and facial dysmorphism .
lichen planus  ( lp )  is a common inflammatory dermatosis characterized by the development of pruritic violaceous papules or plaques on mucocutaneous surfaces .
linear lichen planus  ( llp )  ,  also referred to as blaschkoid lp ,  is a rare type of lichen planus characterized by a linear distribution of lichenoid lesions along the lines of blaschko ,  which are embryonic pathways of skin development .
actinic lichen planus  ( lp )  is a rare variant of cutaneous lichen planus characterized by the development of photo - distributed lichenoid lesions .
annular atrophic lichen planus  ( lp )  is a rare variant of cutaneous lichen planus characterized by both annular and atrophic lp features in the same lesion .
annular lichen planus  ( lp )  is a rare variant of cutaneous lichen planus characterized by the development of annular lesions .
atrophic lichen planus  ( lp )  is a rare variant of cutaneous lichen planus characterized by the development of pale papules or plaques with an atrophic center .
lichen planus  ( lp )  pigmentosus is a rare variant of cutaneous lichen planus characterized by the presence of hyperpigmented lichenoid lesions in sun - exposed or flexural areas of the body .
lichen planus  ( lp )  pemphigoides is a rare cross - over syndrome between lichen planus and bullous pemphigoid .
frontal fibrosing alopecia  ( ffa )  is a rare variant of lichen planopilaris characterized by symmetrical ,  progressive ,  band - like anterior hair loss of the scalp .
inhalational botulism is a man - made form of botulism ,  a rare acquired neuromuscular junction disease with descending flaccid paralysis caused by botulinum neurotoxins  ( bonts )  .
iatrogenic botulism is the most recent man - made form of botulism ,  a rare acquired neuromuscular junction disease with descending flaccid paralysis caused by botulinum neurotoxins  ( bonts )  ,  and it may occur as an adverse event after therapeutic or cosmetic use .
kagami - ogata syndrome is a rare genetic disease characterized by polyhydramnios  ( mostly due to placentomegaly )  ,  fetal macrosomia ,  abdominal wall defects ,  skeletal abnormalities  ( including bell - shaped thorax ,  coat - hanger appearance of the ribs and decreased mid to wide thorax diameter ratio in infancy )  ,  feeding difficulties and impaired swallowing ,  dysmorphic features  ( hairy forehead ,  full cheeks ,  protruding philtrum ,  micrognathia )  ,  developmental delay and intellectual disability .
complete hydatidiform mole is a type of hydatiform mole characterized by abnormal hyperplastic trophoblasts and hydropic villi due to fertilization of an enucleated ovocyte by one or two haploid spermatozoa that can manifest with vaginal bleeding accompanied by nausea and frequent vomiting ,  hyperemesis gravidarum ,  risk of spontaneous miscarriage ,  hyperthyroidism ,  and has the potential of developing into choriocarcinoma .
partial hydatiform mole is a type of hydatiform mole characterized by abnormal hyperplastic trophoblasts and hydropic villi due to fertilization of a normal ovocyte by two spermatozoa or one abnormal spermatozoon  ( allowing for some fetal development )  ,  and that manifests with vaginal bleeding accompanied by nausea and frequent vomiting ,  hyperemesis gravidarum ,  hyperthyroidism and risk of spontaneous miscarriage .
an epithelioid trophoblastic tumor is an extremely rare gestational trophoblastic tumor  ( gtt )  which generally occurs several years after pregnancy .
genetic hyperferritinemia without iron overload is a rare biological anomaly defined as high serum ferritin levels without elevations of transferrin saturation ,  tissue or serum iron and characterized by an apparently asymptomatic clinical phenotype .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of pyruvate metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of tricarboxylic acid cycle .
mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome ,  encephalomyopathic form is a group of mitochondrial dna maintenance syndrome diseases characterized by predominantly neuromuscular manifestations with typically infantile onset of hypotonia ,  lactic acidosis ,  psychomotor delay ,  progressive hyperkinetic - dystonic movement disorders ,  external ophtalmoplegia ,  sensosineural hearing loss ,  generalized seizures and variable renal tubular dysfunction .
maternally - inherited mitochondrial dystonia is a rare neurological mitochondrial dna - related disorder characterized clinically by progressive pediatric - onset dystonia with variable degrees of severity .
pure mitochondrial myopathy is a rare mitochondrial disease characterized by exclusive skeletal muscle involvement ,  without clinical evidence of other organ involvement ,  manifesting with progressive limb weakness ,  proximal limb muscle atrophy ,  and eye muscle anomalies  ( e .g .
autosomal recessive form of progressive external ophthalmoplegia .
renal tubulopathy  -  encephalopathy  -  liver failure describes a spectrum of phenotypes with manifestations similar but milder than those seen in gracile syndrome and that can be associated with encephalopathy and psychiatric disorders .
dopa - responsive dystonia  ( drd )  describes a group of neurometabolic disorders characterized by dystonia that typically shows diurnal fluctuations ,  that responds excellently to levodopa  ( l - dopa )  and that is comprised of autosomal dominant dopa - responsive dystonia  ( dyt5a )  ,  autosomal recessive dopa - responsive dystonia  ( dyt5b )  and dopa responsive dystonia due to sepiapterin reductase  ( sr )  deficiency .
maternally inherited leigh syndrome is a rare subtype of leigh syndrome characterized clinically by encephalopathy ,  lactic acidosis ,  seizures ,  cardiomyopathy ,  respiratory disorders and developmental delay ,  with onset in infancy or early childhood ,  and resulting from maternally - inherited mutations in mitochondrial dna .
ear - patella - short stature syndrome is an association of malformations including bilateral microtia  ( severe hypoplasia of ear pinnae )  ,  absent patellae ,  short stature ,  poor weight gain ,  and characteristic facial features such as high forehead ,  micrognathism with full lips and small mouth ,  and accentuated nasolabial folds  ( smile wrinkles linking the nostrils to the labial commissure )  .
mikati - najjar - sahli syndrome is characterized by microcephaly ,  hypergonadotropic hypogonadism ,  short stature and facial dysmorphism  ( a narrow forehead ,  hypertrophy and fusion of the eyebrows ,  micrognathia and pinnae abnormalities )  .
this syndrome is characterized by the association of mc6bius syndrome  ( congenital facial palsy with impaired ocular abduction )  with peripheral axonal neuropathy and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
moyamoya disease  ( mmd )  is a rare intracranial arteriopathy involving progressive stenosis of the cerebral vasculature located at the base of the brain causing transient ischemic attacks or strokes .
myalgia - eosinophilia syndrome associated with tryptophan is a rare systemic disease characterized by severe myalgia and peripheral eosinophilia associated with tryptophan dietary supplementation .
mycetomas are subcutaneous inflammatory pseudotumors containing fungal or actinomycetic  ( bacteria with branched filaments )  granules or grains .
a benign ,  multifocal ,  nodular and well - circumscribed neoplasm usually seen as a congenital neoplasm or in the first year of life .
mitochondrial myopathy - lactic acidosis - deafness is a type of metabolic myopathy described only in two sisters to date ,  presenting during childhood ,  and characterized clinically by growth failure ,  severe muscle weakness ,  and moderate sensorineural deafness and biochemically by metabolic acidosis ,  elevated serum pyruvate concentration ,  hyperalaninemia and hyperalaninuria .
methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria is an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  lethargy ,  failure to thrive ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual deficit and seizures .
congenital autosomal recessive sideroblastic anemia  ( arsa )  is a non - syndromic ,  microcytic / hypochromic sideroblastic anemia ,  present from early infancy and characterized by severe microcytic anemia ,  which is not pyridoxine responsive ,  and increased serum ferritin .
familial visceral myopathy is a rare hereditary myopathic degeneration of both gastrointestinal and urinary tracts that causes chronic intestinal pseudo - obstruction .
emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy  ( edmd )  is characterized by muscular weakness and atrophy ,  with early joint contractures and cardiomyopathy .
distal 7q11 .23 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by a predominantly neuropsychiatric phenotype with a few dysmorphic characteristics .
14q12 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by severe intellectual deficit ,  with a normal neonatal period ,  followed by a phase of regression at the age of 3 - 6 months .
16p11 .2p12 .2 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 16 with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by developmental / psychomotor delay  ( particularly of speech )  ,  intellectual disability ,  autism spectrum disorder and / or obsessive and repetitive behaviour ,  behavioural problems  ( such as aggression and outbursts )  ,  dysmorphic facial features  ( triangular face ,  deep set eyes ,  broad and prominent nasal bridge ,  upslanting or narrow palpebral features ,  hypertelorism )  .
14q11 .2 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by developmental delay ,  mild to severe intellectual disability with speech impairment and epilepsy .
16p13 .11 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by developmental delay ,  microcephaly ,  epilepsy ,  short stature ,  facial dysmorphism and behavioral problems .
16p13 .11 microduplication syndrome is a recently described syndrome associated with variable clinical features including behavioral abnormalities ,  developmental delay ,  congenital heart defects and skeletal anomalies .
16q24 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome associated with variable developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism ,  seizures and autistic spectrum disorder .
distal 17p13 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a rare partial monosomy of the short arm of chromosome 17 with a variable phenotype characterized by prenatal and postnatal growth retardation ,  developmental delay ,  mild intellectual disability ,  macrocephaly ,  mild facial dysmorphisms including prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  thick upper and / or lower lip vermillion ,  and structural abnormalities of the brain variably including white matter abnormalities ,  prominent virchow - robin spaces ,  chiari i malformation ,  corpus callosum hypoplasia ,  but no lissencephaly .
trisomy 17p is a rare chromosomal abnormality resulting from the duplication of the short arm of chromosome 17 and characterized by pre -  and post - natal growth retardation ,  developmental delay ,  hypotonia ,  digital abnormalities ,  congenital heart defects ,  and distinctive facial features .
20p12 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by wolff - parkinson - white syndrome ,  variable developmental delay and facial dysmorphism .
paternal 20q13 .2q13 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a recently described syndrome characterized by severe pre -  and post - natal growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  intractable feeding difficulties ,  mild psychomotor retardation ,  hypotonia and facial dysmorphism .
20q13 .33 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 20 with a highly variable phenotype typically characterized by hypotonia ,  intellectual disability ,  cognitive and language deficits  ( including decreased or absent speech )  ,  pre and post - natal growth retardation ,  feeding difficulties ,  microcephaly ,  and malformed hands and feet .
trisomy 20p is a chromosomal disorder resulting from duplication of all or part of the short arm of chromosome 20 .
distal 22q11 .2 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 22 ,  with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  hypotonia ,  growth retardation ,  velopharyngeal insufficiency ,  mild craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  tall / broad forehead ,  small downslating palpebral fissures ,  hooded eyelids ,  flat nasal bridge ,  low posterior hairline )  and digital anomalies .
trisomy 1q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 1 ,  with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
juvenile temporal arteritis is a rare form of vasculitis ,  a group of conditions that cause inflammation of the blood vessels .
atypical norrie disease due to monosomy xp11 .3 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome x ,  principally characterized by classical norrie disease  ( bilateral ,  severe retinal malformations and opacity of the lens leading to congenital blindness ,  on occasion associated with progressive sensorineural deafness and intellectual disability )  ,  microcephaly ,  hypotonia ,  psychomotor and growth delay ,  moderate to severe mental handicap and disruptive behaviour .
ring chromosome y is a rare chromosome y structural anomaly ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  mostly characterized by short stature ,  partial to total gonadal failure ,  sexual infantilism ,  genital anomalies  ( e .g .
49 ,  xxxyy syndrome is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when a male inherits two extra copies of the x chromosome and one extra copy of the y chromosome .
blepharophimosis  -  epicanthus inversus  -  ptosis  ( bpes )  due to 3q23 microdeletion is a form of bpes ,  which in addition to the classical eyelids features of bpes ,  present genitourinary anomalies ,  spastic diplegia and speech delay .
blepharophimosis - epicanthus inversus - ptosis  ( bpes )  due to a point mutation is a form of bpes ,  characterized by the classical eyelid malformation  ( blepharophimosis ,  ptosis ,  epicanthus inversus ,  and telecanthus )  which may be accompanied by growth retardation and primary ovary failure .
blepharophimosis  -  epicanthus inversus  -  ptosis  ( bpes )  due to polya expansion is a form of bpes ,  characterized by the classical eyelid malformation  ( blepharophimosis ,  ptosis ,  epicanthus inversus ,  and telecanthus )  which may be associated with a mild ovarian involvement .
chromosome 1p deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 1 .
chromosome 7p deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 7 .
chromosome 8p deletion is a chromosome abnormality that affects many different parts of the body .
duchenne and becker muscular dystrophies  ( dmd and bmd )  are neuromuscular diseases characterized by progressive muscle wasting and weakness due to degeneration of skeletal ,  smooth and cardiac muscle .
chromosome 2q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 2 .
chromosome 4q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that affects many different parts of the body .
chromosome 6q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 6 .
chromosome 7q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 7 .
chromosome 8q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 8 .
a cytogenetic abnormality that refers to the allelic loss of all or part of the long arm of chromosome 11 .
a cytogenetic abnormality that refers to the allelic loss of all or part of the long arm of chromosome 13 .
chromosome 14q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing  ( deleted )  copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 14 .
chromosome 2p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 2 .
chromosome 3p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 3 .
chromosome 6p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 6 .
chromosome 7p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 7 .
chromosome 8p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 8 .
chromosome 9p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 9 .
chromosome 16p duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the short arm  ( p )  of chromosome 16 .
chromosome 2q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 2 .
chromosome 3q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on thelong arm  ( q )  of chromosome 3 .
chromosome 4q duplication is a chromosome abnormality characterized by an extra copy  ( duplication )  of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 4 .
chromosome 5q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 5 .
chromosome 6q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 6 .
chromosome 7q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 7 .
chromosome 13q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra ( duplicated )  copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 13 .
chromosome 15q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when an extra  ( duplicate )  copy of the genetic material located on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 15 is present in each cell .
limb - girdle muscular dystrophy  ( lgmd )  is a heterogeneous group of muscular dystrophies characterized by proximal weakness affecting the pelvic and shoulder girdles .
an epithelial neoplasm arising from the thymus .
a thymic epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of a lymphocyte - poor component similar to that seen in type a thymoma and a lymphocyte - rich component which contains neoplastic small polygonal epithelial cells .
mrcs syndrome is a rare ,  genetic retinal dystrophy disorder characterized by bilateral microcornea ,  rod - cone dystrophy ,  cataracts and posterior staphyloma ,  in the absence of other systemic features .
a malignant tumor arising from the endothelial cells of the blood vessels .
bartter syndrome with hypocalcemia is a type of bartter syndrome characterized by hypocalcemia ,  hypomagnesemia and hypoparathyroidism along with features of henle's loop dysfunction  ( polyuria ,  hypokalemic alkalosis ,  increased levels of plasma renin and aldosterone ,  low blood pressure and vascular resistance to angiotensin ii )  .
nevus of ota is an oculodermal melanocytosis more commonly found in asian and african populations ,  usually present at birth and characterized by a usually unilateral ,  bluish gray ,  patchy ,  speckled pigmentation  ( that may progressively enlarge and darken )  affecting the skin of the face along the distribution of the ophthalmic and maxillary divisions of the trigeminal nerve  ( periorbital region ,  temple ,  forehead ,  malar area ,  nose )  .
nevus of ito is a benign dermal melanocytosis occurring most frequently in the asian populations and characterized by unilateral ,  asymptomatic ,  blue ,  gray or brown skin pigmentation within the acromioclavicular and upper chest area  ( involving the side of the neck ,  the supraclavicular and scapular areas ,  and the shoulder region )  .
congenital smooth muscle hamartoma  ( csmh )  is a rare cutaneous hamartomatous lesion most often located on the lumbosacral area or proximal limbs  ( but rarely on atypical areas such as scalp ,  eyelid or foot )  and characterized by a disorganized proliferation of smooth muscle fibres of arrector pili presenting usually as a localized skin - colored or hyperpigmented plaque  ( up to 10 cm in diameter )  with prominent vellus hairs  ( most common classic form )  or less commonly by multiple skin - colored papules that can coalesce to form irregularly shaped plaques .
neuroacanthocytosis  ( na )  syndromes are a group of genetic diseases characterized by the association of red blood cell acanthocytosis  ( deformed erythrocytes with spike - like protrusions )  and progressive degeneration of the basal ganglia .
hyperinsulinism due to hnf4a deficiency is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism  ( dhi )  ,  characterized by macrosomia ,  transient or persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia  ( hh )  ,  responsiveness to diazoxide and a propensity to develop maturity - onset diabetes of the young subtype 1  ( mody - 1 )  .
fuchs heterochromic iridocyclitis  ( fhi )  is an ocular disease of unknown etiology occurring in a very small percentage  ( 0 .5 - 6 .2% )  of uvietis cases ,  characterized by diffuse iris heterochromia or atrophy ,  keratic precipitates in the absence of synechiae ,  and in some cases evolving to glaucoma and vitreous opacities .
an instance of prothrombin deficiency that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
acute necrotizing encephalopathy of childhood is a rare neurologic disease characterized by a rapid onset of seizures ,  an altered state of consciousness ,  neurologic decline ,  and variable degrees of hepatic dysfunction following a respiratory or gastrointesitnal infection  ( e .g .
peeling skin syndrome  ( pss )  type b ,  also known as peeling skin disease  ( psd )  ,  is a rare inflammatory form of ichthyosis characterized by superficial patchy peeling of the entire skin with underlying erythroderma ,  pruritus ,  and atopy .
microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism  ( mopd )  types 1 and 3 are characterized by intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  facial dysmorphism ,  skeletal dysplasia ,  low - birth weight and brain anomalies .
familial multiple meningioma is a rare ,  benign neoplasm of the central nervous system characterized by the development of multiple or ,  rarely ,  solitary meningiomas in two or more blood relatives ,  without other apparent syndromic manifestations .
natural killer  ( nk )  - cell enteropathy is a benign nk - cell lymphoproliferative disease characterized by minor abdominal symptoms  ( abdominal pain ,  diverticulosis ,  constipation and reflux )  due to nk cell - derived lesions in the mucosal layer of the gastrointestinal tract and often mistaken for nk or t - cell lymphoma .
chromosome xq duplication is a chromosome abnormality that affects many different parts of the body .
trisomy 8p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 8 ,  with highly variable phenotype ranging from no dysmorphic features and only mild intellectual disability to patients with severe developmental delay ,  neonatal hypotonia ,  short stature ,  profound intellectual disability ,  mild dysmorphic features  ( e .g .
a interstitial lung disease that occurs during childhood .
isolated pauciimmune pulmonary capillaritis is a small vessel vasculitis restricted to the lungs that may induce diffuse alveolar hemorrhage with dyspnea ,  anemia ,  chest pain ,  hemoptysis ,  bilateral and diffuse alveolar infiltrates at chest x - rays ,  without any underlying systemic disease .
langerhans cell histiocytosis that occurs during childhood .
langerhans cell histiocytosis that occurs during adulthood .
osteochondrodysplatic nanism - deafness - retinitis pigmentosa syndrome is characterized by severe dwarfism ,  progressive scoliosis and bilateral dislocation of the hip ,  associated with sensorineural deafness and retinitis pigmentosa .
thanatophoric dysplasia  ( td )  is a severe and generally lethal skeletal dysplasia presenting in the prenatal period and characterized by micromelia ,  macrocephaly ,  narrow thorax ,  and distinctive facial features .
a low grade childhood congenital malignant neoplasm arising from the kidney .
this syndrome ,  associating familial adult medullary cystic disease with spastic quadriparesis has been described in two cases so far .
neuroectodermal - endocrine syndrome is characterised by a combination of endocrine and neuroectodermal abnormalities ,  including low growth hormone levels ,  delayed puberty ,  type ii diabetes mellitus ,  mild intellectual deficit ,  sensorineural deafness ,  characteristic facial appearance and alopecia .
peripheral neuroepithelioma is a rare noncentral nervous system tumor with evidence of primitive neuroectodermal differentiation .
pseudomyxoma peritonei is characterized by disseminated intra - peritoneal mucinous tumors and mucinous ascites in the abdomen and pelvis .
10 m / s )  are frequently associated .
intraocular medulloepithelioma is a rare eye tumor characterized by a white ,  gray or yellow - colored cystic mass that arises from the primitive neuroectodermal ,  nonpigmented epithelium of the ciliary body ,  or occasionally from the optic nerve ,  optic disc ,  retina or iris .
classic maple syrup urine disease  ( classic msud )  is the most severe and probably common form of msud characterized by a maple syrup odor in the cerumen at birth ,  poor feeding ,  lethargy and focal dystonia ,  followed by progressive encephalopathy and central respiratory failure if untreated .
intermediate maple syrup urine disease  ( intermediate msud )  is a milder form of msud characterized by persistently raised branched - chain amino acids  ( bcaas )  and ketoacids ,  but fewer or no acute episodes of decompensation .
intermittent maple syrup urine disease  ( intermittent msud )  is a mild form of msud where patients  ( when well )  are asymptomatic with normal levels of branched - chain amino acids  ( bcaas )  but with catabolic stress are at risk of acute decompensation with ketoacidosis ,  which can lead to cerebral edema and coma if untreated .
thiamine - responsive maple syrup urine disease  ( thiamine - responsive msud )  is a less severe variant of msud that manifests with a phenotype similar to intermediate msud but that responds positively to treatment with thiamine .
mycophenolate mofetil  ( mmf )  embryopathy is a malformative syndrome due to the teratogenic effect of mmf ,  an effective immunosuppressive agent widely used for the prevention of organ rejection after organ transplantation .
autosomal recessive form of intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of neural tube closure .
a congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column .
posterior meningocele is a rare neural tube closure defect characterized by the herniation of a cerebrospinal fluid - filled sac ,  that is lined by dura and arachnoid mater ,  through a posterior spina bifida and covered by a layer of skin of variable thickness ,  which may be dysplastic or ulcerated .
a congenital neural tube closure defect resulting in the protrusion of the brain through a skull opening .
a congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the cranium .
leptomyelolipoma is a rare neural tube closure defect characterized by an abnormally low lying conus which is tethered by a lumbosacral lipomatous mass  ( containing fatty tissue ,  nerve fibers ,  meningeal strands and fibrous bands )  which engulfs the filum terminale and varying numbers of dorsal and ventral nerve root components ,  typically producing sensory ,  motor ,  bowel and / or bladder dysfunction .
primary tethered cord syndrome is a genetic ,  non - syndromic congenital malformation of the neurenteric canal ,  spinal cord and column characterized by progressive neurologic deterioration  ( pain ,  sensorimotor deficits ,  abnormal gait ,  decreased tone or abnormal reflexes )  ,  musculoskeletal changes  ( foot deformities and asymmetry ,  muscle atrophy ,  limb weakness and numbness ,  gait disturbances ,  scoliosis )  and / or genitourinary manifestations  ( bladder and bowel dysfunction )  .
a megalencephaly  ( disease )  that is not part of a larger syndrome .
bilateral polymicrogyria is a rare cerebral malformation due to abnormal neuronal migration defined as a cerebral cortex with many excessively small convolutions .
unilateral polymicrogyria is a cerebral cortical malformation characterized by unilateral excessive cortical folding and abnormal cortical layering .
unilateral focal polymicrogyria  ( bfpp )  is the mildest sub - type of polymicrogyria  ( pmg )  ,  a cerebral cortical malformation characterized by excessive cortical folding and abnormal cortical layering ,  that affects only one small region of the brain and that may show no neurologic involvement .
abnormalities in the development of the cerebral cortex .
neutropenia - monocytopenia - deafness syndrome is characterised by neutropenia with myeloid marrow hypoplasia ,  monocytopenia ,  and congenital deafness .
glioependymal / ependymal cyst is a rare central nervous system malformation defined as a subarachnoid ,  supratentorial ,  interventricular or intraspinal ,  sometimes intracerebral or intramedullar cyst with an internal ependymal lining ,  possibly surrounded by glial tissue .
isolated unilateral hemispheric cerebellar hypoplasia is a rare ,  non - syndromic cerebellar malformation characterized by loss of volume in the right or left cerebellar hemisphere ,  with intact vermis and no other neurological anomalies  ( i .e .
isolated bilateral hemispheric cerebellar hypoplasia is a rare cerebellar malformation characterized by hypoplasia of both cerebellar hemispheres with no other cerebellar / cerebral anomaly or other associated clinical feature .
arthrogryposis - renal dysfunction - cholestasis  ( arc )  syndrome is a multisystem disorder ,  characterized by neurogenic arthrogryposis multiplex congenita ,  renal tubular dysfunction and neonatal cholestasis with low serum gamma - glutamyl transferase activity .
noma is a gangrenous disease that causes severe destruction of the soft and osseous tissues of the face .
oculo - facio - cardio - dental syndrome  ( ofcd )  is a very rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by dental radiculomegaly ,  congenital cataract ,  facial dismorphism and congenital heart disease .
an instance of mesenchymal cell neoplasm that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of heart cancer that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of systemic or rheumatic disease that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
odonto - onycho dysplasia - alopecia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by almost total alopecia with only sparse ,  thin ,  brittle ,  slow - growing scalp hair ,  fair and sparse eyebrows and eyelashes ,  absent axillary and pubic hair ,  fragile and brittle fingernails ,  thick and brittle toenails  ( both with a subungual corneal layer )  ,  hypodontia ,  microdontia ,  widely spaced teeth with hypoplastic enamel ,  mild palmoplantar keratosis ,  cafe - au - lait spots and areolae anomalies .
olivopontocerebellar atrophy - deafness syndrome is characterised by infancy - onset olivopontocerebellar atrophy ,  sensorineural deafness and speech impairment .
omodysplasia is a rare skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe limb shortening and facial dysmorphism .
onchocerciasis is a form of filariasis ,  caused by the parasitic worm onchocerca volvulus ,  transmitted by the black fly .
opitz g / bbb syndrome  ( os )  is a multiple congenital anomalies disorder characterized by malformations of the midline including hypertelorism ,  laryngo - tracheo - esophalgeal defects and hypospadias .
oromandibular - limb hypogenesis syndromes  ( olhs )  are a group of dysmorphic complexes  ( including charlie m syndrome ,  hanhart syndrome and glossopalatine ankylosis )  characterized by the association of severe asymmetric limb defects  ( primarily involving distal segments )  and abnormalities of the oral cavity and mandible  ( hypoglossia ,  aglossia ,  micrognathia ,  glossopalatine ankylosis ,  cleft palate ,  and gingival anomalies )  .
l1 syndrome is a mild to severe congenital x - linked developmental disorder characterized by hydrocephalus of varying degrees of severity ,  intellectual deficit ,  spasticity of the legs ,  and adducted thumbs .
genetic infertility .
idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( ipah )  is a sporadic form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure .
heritable pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( hpah )  is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  ,  occurring due to mutations in pah predisposing genes or in a familial context .
drug -  or toxin - induced pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  secondary to the exposition to drugs .
pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with another disease is a group of conditions that lead to pah ;  connective tissue diseases  ( lupus erythematosus ,  systemic sclerosis and mixed connective tissues disease )  ,  congenital heart disease  ( eisenmenger syndrome )  ,  hiv infection ,  portal hypertension ,  schistosomiasis and chronic hemolytic anemia ,  which is characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure that is progressive and potentially fatal .
pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  associated with connective tissue disease  ( pah - ctd )  is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  characterized by an elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure observed as a complication of a connective tissue disease .
pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with congenital heart disease  ( pah - chd )  is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  ,  characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure occurring as a common complication of congenital heart malformations with left to right cardiac shunts .
pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  associated with hiv infection  ( pah - hiv )  is a form of pah characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure observed as a complication of hiv infection .
pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with portal hypertension  ( pah - ph )  is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  ,  characterized by an elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure observed as a complication of portal hypertension .
pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with schistosomiasis  ( pahs )  is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension characterized by an elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure ,  observed as a complication of a chronic schistosomiasis .
pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with chronic hemolytic anemia  ( pah - cha )  is a form of pah characterized by an elevated pulmonary arterial resistance leading to right heart failure observed as a complication of chronic hemolytic anemia .
behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia  ( bv - ftd )  is a form of frontotemporal dementia  ( ftd )  ,  characterized by progressive behavioral impairment and a decline in executive function with frontal lobe - predominant atrophy .
frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease  ( ftd - mnd )  is a type of frontotemporal lobar degeneration characterized by the insidious onset  ( between the ages of 38 - 78 years )  of dementia - associated psychiatric symptoms  ( e .g .
imperforate oropharynx - costovertebral anomalies syndrome is a dysostosis with predominant vertebral and costal involvement characterized by oropharyngeal atresia ,  mild mandibulofacial dysostosis ,  auricular malformations ,  and costovertebral anomalies  ( hemivertebrae ,  block vertebra ,  partial fusion of the ribs ,  absent ribs )  .
bile acid coa ligase deficiency and defective amidation is an anomaly of bile acid synthesis characterized by fat malabsorption ,  neonatal cholestasis and growth failure .
multiple endocrine neoplasia  ( men )  is a group of rare inherited cancer syndromes characterized by the development of two or more endocrine gland tumors ,  sometimes with tumor development in other tissues or organs .
idiopathic recurrent stupor is a rare neurologic disease characterized by unpredictable ,  transient and spontaneous unresponsiveness lasting from hours to days ,  with a frequency of three to seven attacks per year ,  in the absence of readily discernible toxic ,  metabolic or structural causes .
non - syndromic male infertility due to sperm motility disorder is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic male infertility disorder characterized by infertility due to sperm with defects in their cilia / flagella structure ,  leading to absent motility or reduced forward motility in fresh ejaculate .
machado - joseph disease type 1 is a rare ,  usually severe subtype of machado - joseph disease  ( sca3 / mjd )  characterized by the presence of marked pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs .
machado - joseph disease type 2 is a subtype of machado - joseph disease  ( sca3 / mjd )  with intermediate severity characterized by an intermediate age of onset ,  cerebellar ataxia and external progressive ophthalmoplegia ,  with variable pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs .
machado - joseph disease type 3 is a subtype of machado - joseph disease  ( sca3 / mjd )  of milder severity characterized by late onset ,  slower progression ,  and peripheral amyotrophy .
hemihyperplasia - multiple lipomatosis syndrome is a rare ,  genetic overgrowth syndrome characterized by non -  progressive ,  asymmetrical ,  moderate hemihyperplasia  ( frequently affecting the limbs )  associated with slow growing ,  painless ,  multiple ,  recurrent ,  subcutaneous lipomatous masses distributed throughout entire body  ( in particular back ,  torso ,  extremities ,  fingers ,  axillae )  .
osteochondritis dissecans  ( ocd )  is a rare bone disease characterized by an acquired idiopathic necrotic lesion of subchondral bone with the formation of a sequestrum ,  which may detach to form loose bodies in joints .
limbic encephalitis with caspr2 antibodies is a rare neuroimmunological disorder characterized by the onset of cognitive deficits ,  psychiatric disturbances  ( e .g .
conditions in which the primary symptom is headache and the headache cannot be attributed to any known causes .
an instance of hyperinsulinism  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
hyhyperinsulism due to ucp2 deficiency  ( hiucp2 )  is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism  ( dhi )  characterized by hypoglycemic episodes from the neonatal period ,  a good clinical response to diazoxide and a probable transient nature of the disease with spontaneous resolution .
autosomal dominant hyperinsulinism due to sur1 deficiency is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism  ( dhi )  ,  characterized by hypoglycemic epiosodes that are usually mild ,  escaping detection during infancy and usually a good clinical response to diazoxide .
autosomal dominant hyperinsulinism due to kir6 .2 deficiency is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism  ( dhi )  characterized by hypoglycemic epiosodes that are usually mild ,  escaping detection during infancy ,  and usually a good clinical response to diazoxide ,   ( but some are diazoxide resistant )  .
diazoxide - resistant hyperinsulism  ( drh )  is form of congenital isolated hyperinsulism caused by an abnormal insulin production by b - cells in the pancreas that can be diffuse or focal and is characterized by an excessive /  uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  ,  recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia and resistance to medical management with diazoxide .
diazoxide - resistant hyperinsulism  ( drh )  is form of congenital isolated hyperinsulinism caused by an abnormal insulin production by b - cells in the pancreas that can be diffuse or focal and is characterized by an excessive /  uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  ,  recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia and resistance to medical management with diazoxide
sporadic pheochromocytoma / secreting paraganglioma are isolated ,  non - familial ,  catecholamin - producing tumors arising from neuroendocrine chromaffin cells in the adrenal medulla or in extra - adrenal chromaffin tissue ,  respectively .
blount disease is characterized by disturbed growth of the inner portion of the upper tibial extremity ,  progressively leading to bowlegged deformity with bone angulation just below the knee  ( tibia varus )  .
bruck syndrome is characterised by the association of osteogenesis imperfecta and congenital joint contractures .
osteogenesis imperfecta - retinopathy - seizures - intellectual disability syndrome is characterized by osteogenesis imperfecta ,  wormian bones ,  optic atrophy ,  retinopathy ,  seizures and severe developmental delay .
osteopathia striata - pigmentary dermopathy - white forelock syndrome is characterised by the association of osteopathia striata  ( longitudinal striations through most of the long bones )  with a macular ,  hyperpigmented dermopathy and a white forelock .
osteopetrosis ,  also known as marble bone disease ,  is a descriptive term that refers to a group of rare ,  heritable disorders of the skeleton characterized by increased bone density on radiographs .
osteoporosis - macrocephaly - blindness - joint hyperlaxity syndrome is characterised by osteoporosis ,  macrocephalus ,  brachytelephalangy ,  and hyperextensibility of the joints .
polycystic ovaries - urethral sphincter dysfunction syndrome is characterised by urinary retention and incomplete emptying of the bladder associated with abnormal electromyographic activity .
spasmus nutans  ( sn )  is a rare eye disease characterized by the clinical triad of asymmetric and pendular nystagmus ,  head nodding ,  and torticollis .
acute form of endophthalmitis .
chronic form of endophthalmitis .
toxic maculopathy due to antimalarial drugs is a rare ,  acquired eye disease ,  due to long - term exposure to chloroquinine  ( cq )  or hydrochloroquinine  ( hcq )  ,  characterized by a slowly progressive ,  usually non - reversible ,  development of bilateral atrophic bull's - eye maculopathy  ( progressive loss of central vision acuity ,  reduced color vision and central scotoma )  ,  which in severe cases can spread over the entire fundus ,  leading to widespread retinal atrophy and visual loss .
primary oculocerebral lymphoma is a rare ,  primary ,  organ - specific ,  extranodal non - hodgkin's lymphoma  ( typically diffuse large b - cell lymphoma )  ,  simultaneously affecting the intraocular compartments  ( retina ,  vitreous ,  optic nerve ,  uvea and others )  and the central nervous system  ( commonly the cerebellum ,  spinal cord or pia mater )  .
an infectious disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the anterior uvea .
postorgasmic illness syndrome  ( pois )  is a rare condition in which a man develops flu - like symptoms after ejaculation  ( when semen is released from the penis )  .
vitamin b12 - responsive methylmalonic acidemia  ( ma )  is an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by recurrent ketoacidotic comas or transient vomiting ,  dehydration ,  hypotonia and intellectual deficit ,  which responds to vitamin b12 .
calciphylaxis is a disease in which blood vessels  ( veins and arteries )  become blocked by a build - up of calcium in the walls of the vessels ,  preventing blood from flowing to the skin or internal organs .
calciphylaxis cutis is a life - threatening syndrome characterized by progressive and painful skin ulcerations associated with media calcification of medium - size and small cutaneous arterial vessels .
visceral calciphylaxis is a rare ,  life - threatening ,  non - inflammatory vasculopathy disorder characterized by diffuse precipitation of calcium in viscera  ( mainly in the heart or lungs ,  but also in the stomach or kidneys )  leading to fibrosis and thrombosis ,  which eventually cause necrotic ulcerations of the tissue .
septopreoptic holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  is a very rare subtype of lobar hpe characterized by midline fusion limited to the septal and / or preoptic regions of the telencephalon without a significant frontal neocortical fusion .
microform holoprosencephaly is a benign form of holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  characterized by midline defects without the typical hpe defect in brain cleavage .
laryngo - tracheo - esophageal cleft  ( lc )  type 0 is a congenital respiratory tract anomaly characterized by a submucosal laryngo - tracheo - esophageal cleft with minor symptoms or an asymptomatic course .
the connatal form of pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  is the most severe form of pmd .
the classic form of pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  is the infantile form of pmd .
the transitional form of pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  is the intermediate form of pmd .
pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  in female carriers is the presentation of pmd in some women carrying mutations in the plp1 gene  ( xq22 )  .
the null syndrome is part of the pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  spectrum and is characterized by mild pmd features associated with demyelinating peripheral neuropathy .
pelizaeus - merzbacher like disease  ( pmld )  is an autosomal recessive leukodystrophy sharing identical clinical and radiological features as x - linked pelizaeus - merzbacher disease  ( pmd )  .
60 years )  and presenting with abdominal pain ,  steatorrhea ,  obstructive jaundice and other organ  ( bile duct ,  kidneys and retroperitoneum )  involvement .
60 years )  and presenting with abdominal pain ,  steatorrhea and obstructive jaundice .
distal monosomy 12p is a rare partial autosomal monosomy characterized by language development delay with childhood apraxia of speech ,  mild intellectual disability ,  behavourial abnormalities  ( autistic spectrum disorder ,  attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ,  anxiety )  and mildly dysmorphic nonspecific features .
recessive intellectual disability - motor dysfunction - multiple joint contractures syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disabilty disorder characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  progressive ,  postnatal ,  multiple joint contractures and severe motor dysfunction .
an instance of prion disease that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
familial omphalocele syndrome with facial dysmorphism is a rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by omphalocele associated with facial dysmorphism including flat face ,  short ,  upturned nose ,  long and wide philtrum and flattened maxillary arch and abnormalities of hands .
inflammation of the glomeruli that is characterized by a rapid loss in renal function with glomerular crescent formation observed on biopsy ;  it is often seen in patients with concomitant autoimmune disease ,  like goodpasture's syndrome or systemic lupus erythematosus .
familial progressive hyper -  and hypopigmentation is a rare ,  genetic ,  skin pigmentation anomaly disorder characterized by progressive ,  diffuse ,  partly blotchy ,  hyperpigmented lesions that are intermixed with multiple caf - au - lait spots ,  hypopigmented maculae and lentigines and are located on the face ,  neck ,  trunk and limbs ,  as well as ,  frequently ,  the palms ,  soles and oral mucosa .
cutaneous collagenous vasculopathy  ( ccv )  is a primary microangiopathy confined to the skin ,  characterized by multiple and widespread telangiectasias .
bullous diffuse cutaneous mastocytosis  ( bdcm )  is a form of diffuse cutaneous mastocytosis  ( dcm )  characterized by generalized erythroderma and severe blistering associated with the accumulation of mast cells in the skin .
pseudoxanthomatous diffuse cutaneous mastocytosis  ( pdcm )  is a rare form of diffuse cutaneous mastocytosis  ( dcm )  characterized by yellow - orange infiltrated and xanthogranuloma - like lesions with only limited blistering .
a disorder characterized by inflammation of the entire uvea which includes the iris ,  ciliary body ,  and choroid .
idiopathic posterior uveitis is a rare ,  potentially sight - threatening ,  ocular disease ,  not attributed to any specific ocular or systemic cause ,  characterized by focal ,  multifocal or diffuse non - infectious inflammation in the posterior uvea  ( i .e .
idiopathic panuveitis is a rare inflammatory eye disease ,  of unknown etiology ,  characterized by generalized inflammation of the uvea  ( iris ,  ciliary body ,  choroid )  ,  retina and vitreous with consequent ciliary spasm and posterior synechiae formation ,  leading to acute or chronic ,  unilateral or bilateral visual impairment and ocular discomfort or pain .
a inherited ichthyosis that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a inherited ichthyosis that is part of a larger syndrome .
syndromic recessive x - linked ichthyosis  ( rxli )  refers to the cases of rxli that are associated with extracutaneous manifestations as part of a syndrome .
autosomal recessive form of inherited ichthyosis .
self - healing collodion baby  ( shcb )  is a minor variant of autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis  ( arci )  characterized by the presence of a collodion membrane at birth that heals within the first weeks of life .
acral self - healing collodion baby  ( shcb )  is a variant of shcb characterized by the presence at birth of a collodion membrane only at the extremities .
x - linked form of inherited ichthyosis syndromic form .
spastic paraplegia - facial - cutaneous lesions syndrome is a complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by delays in motor development followed by a slowly progressive spastic paraplegia  ( affecting mainly lower extremities )  associated with a desquamating facial rash with butterfly distribution  ( presenting at around two months of age )  and dysarthria .
frontotemporal dementia  ( ftd )  comprises a group of neurodegenerative disorders ,  characterized by progressive changes in behavior ,  executive dysfunction and language impairment ,  as a result of degeneration of the medial prefrontal and frontoinsular cortices .
a group of diverse conditions that are characterized by spontaneous ,  multi - organ autoimmunity ,  which target both endocrine  ( adrenal ,  gonad ,  pancreatic islet cells ,  parathyroid ,  pituitary ,  thyroid )  and non - endocrine  ( gastrointestinal ,  integumentary ,  lymphatic )  tissues .
young - onset parkinson disease  ( yopd )  is a form of parkinson disease  ( pd )  ,  characterized by an age of onset between 21 - 45 years ,  rigidity ,  painful cramps followed by tremor ,  bradykinesia ,  dystonia ,  gait complaints and falls ,  and other non - motor symptoms .
demodicidosis is a rare parasitic cutaneous disease due to demodex mite infestation characterized by variable degrees of spinulosis ,  erythema ,  papules ,  and pustules ,  usually accompanied by a burning or pruritic sensation .
alveolar echinococcosis  ( ae )  is a rare parasitic disorder that occurs after ingestion of eggs of echinococcus multilocularis .
penoscrotal transposition  ( pst )  is a rare congenital genital anomaly in which the scrotum is positioned superior and anterior to the penis .
tempi syndrome is a rare multi - systemic disease characterized by the presence of telangiectasias ,  erythrocytosis with elevated erythropoietin levels ,  monoclonal gammopathy ,  perinephric - fluid collections ,  and intrapulmonary shunting .
a recently described mass - forming lesion that occurs in the pancreas ,  submandibular glands ,  lacrimal glands ,  lymph nodes ,  and hepatobiliary tract .
a rare ,  autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the dicer1 gene .
an instance of intrahepatic cholestasis that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome  ( rcvs )  is an infrequent cerebrovascular disorder characterized by severe headaches with or without focal neurological deficits or seizures ,  and a reversible segmental and multifocal vasoconstriction of cerebral arteries .
well - differentiated fetal adenocarcinoma  ( wdfa )  of the lung is a rare ,  primary ,  low - grade ,  bronchopulmonary neoplasm characterized by a well - circumscribed ,  usually large ,  pulmonary mass that is histologically composed of glycogen - rich neoplastic glands and tubules that resemble fetal lungs at 10 to 16 weeks of gestation and benign adjacent stroma .
infantile glycerol kinase deficiency  ( gkd )  is a severe form of gkd characterized clinically by poor feeding ,  failure to thrive ,  salt - wasting dehydration ,  vomiting ,  addisonian pigmentation ,  hypotonia ,  and disorders of consciousness .
juvenile glycerol kinase deficiency  ( gkd )  is an uncommon form of gkd characterized by reye - like clinical manifestations including episodic vomiting ,  acidemia ,  and disorders of consciousness .
adult glycerol kinase deficiency  ( gkd )  is an uncommon form of gkd diagnosed fortuitously and characterized by pseudohypertriglyceridemia in otherwise healthy adults .
acute zonal occult outer retinopathy  ( azoor )  is a rare condition that affects the eyes .
congenital pericardium anomaly comprises a group of rare congenital cardiac malformations characterized by the complete  ( congenital complete agenesis of pericardium )  or partial absence of the pericardium  ( congenital partial agenesis of pericardium )  ,  or by the presence of pericardial cysts  ( pleuropericardial cyst )  .
pericardial and diaphragmatic defect is a rare combination of absent pericardium with congenital diaphragmatic defect .
albinism affecting the eye in which pigment of the hair and skin is normal or only slightly diluted .
a oculocutaneous albinism that is part of a larger syndrome .
hypothesized form of marfan ;  dubious
neonatal marfan syndrome is a rare ,  severe and life - threatening genetic disease ,  occuring during the neonatal period ,  characterized by classical marfan syndrome manifestations in addition to facial dysmorphism  ( megalocornea ,  iridodonesis ,  ectopia lentis ,  crumpled ears ,  loose redundant skin giving a 'senile' facial appearance )  ,  flexion joint contractures ,  pulmonary emphysema ,  and a severe ,  rapidly progressive cardiovascular disease  ( including ascending aortic dilatation and severe mitral and / or tricuspid valve insufficiency )  .
perrault syndrome  ( ps )  is characterized by the association of ovarian dysgenesis in females with sensorineural hearing impairment .
ehlers - danlos syndrome type iv ,  also known as the vascular type of ehlers - danlos syndrome  ( eds )  ,  is an inherited connective tissue disorder defined by characteristic facial features  ( acrogeria )  in most patients ,  translucent skin with highly visible subcutaneous vessels on the trunk and lower back ,  easy bruising ,  and severe arterial ,  digestive and uterine complications ,  which are rarely ,  if at all ,  observed in the other forms of eds .
short stature - webbed neck - heart disease syndrome is characterized by short stature ,  intellectual deficit ,  facial dysmorphism ,  short webbed neck ,  skin changes and congenital heart defects .
short stature - deafness - neutrophil dysfunction - dysmorphism syndrome is characterised by short stature ,  sensorineural deafness ,  mutism ,  facial dysmorphism and abnormal neutrophil chemotaxis  ( leading to recurrent infections )  .
phakomatosis pigmentokeratotica  ( ppk )  is a very rare epidermal nevus disorder characterized by the association of speckled lentiginous nevi with epidermal sebaceous nevi ,  and extracutaneous anomalies .
hereditary elliptocytosis  ( he )  is a rare clinically and genetically heterogeneous disorder of the red cell membrane characterized by manifestations ranging from mild to severe transfusion - dependent hemolytic anemia but with the majority of patients being asymptomatic .
phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase  ( pepck )  deficiency is a gluconeogenesis disorder that results from impairment in the enzyme pepck ,  and comprising cytosolic  ( pepck1 )  and mitochondrial  ( pepck2 )  forms of enzyme deficiency .
pili torti - onychodysplasia is a form of ectodermal dysplasia characterised by dystrophy of the distal part of the nails and trichodysplasia .
hypocalcemic rickets is a group of genetic diseases characterized by hypocalcemia and rickets .
autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets  ( arhr )  is a hereditary renal phosphate - wasting disorder characterized by hypophosphatemia ,  rickets and / or osteomalacia and slow growth .
early - onset epileptic encephalopathy and intellectual disability due to grin2a mutation is a rare intellectual disability and epilepsy syndrome characterized by global developmental delay and mild to profound intellectual disability ,  multiple types of usually intractable focal and generalized seizures with variable abnormal eeg findings ,  and bilateral progressive parenchymal volume loss and thin corpus callosum on brain mri .
a rare and severe chronic disease characterized by recurrent chronic eczema  ( with erythematous ,  scaly and crusted lesions )  mainly affecting seborrheic areas  ( e .g .
primary non - gestational choriocarcinoma of ovary is a rare ovarian germ cell malignant tumor ,  arising from primordial germ cells ,  usually presenting with nausea ,  vomiting ,  abdominal pain ,  menstrual irregularities ,  and characterized by fast growth pattern ,  metastasis to lung ,  liver and brain and production of human chorionic gonadotrophin  ( hcg )  .
familial vesicoureteral reflux is a rare ,  non - syndromic urogenital tract malformation characterized by the familial occurrence of retrograde flow of urine from the bladder into the ureter and sometimes the kidneys .
pilotto syndrome is a rare genetic multiple developmental anomalies syndrome ,  that is characterized by craniofacial anomalies  ( microcephaly ,  brachycephaly ,  craniosynostosis ,  facial asymmetry ,  cleft lip ,  cleft palate ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  ear lobe malformations ,  low hair line )  ,  congenital heart defects ,  hypogenitalism and / or hypogonadism ,  intellectual disability ,  scoliosis or kyphoscoliosis ,  short hypoplastic ribs ,  failure to thrive ,  growth delay ,  short stature and / or micromelia .
12q15q21 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from a partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 12 ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  typically characterized by developmental delay ,  learning disability ,  intra - uterine and postnatal growth retardation ,  and mild facial dysmorphism that changes with age .
microtriplication 11q24 .1 is an extremely rare partial autosomal tetrasomy ,  resulting from a partial triplication of the long arm of chromosome 11 ,  characterized by intellectual disability  ( with severe verbal impairment )  ,  short stature with small extremities ,  keratoconus and distinctive facial features  ( round ,  course face ,  upward slanting palpebral fissures ,  mild synophris ,  large nose with thick ala nasi and triangular tip ,  large mouth with broad lips ,  short and smooth philtrum ,  large protruded chin ,  ears with adherent lobules )  .
inherited isolated adrenal insufficiency due to partial cyp11a1 deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  chronic ,  primary adrenal insufficiency disorder ,  due to partial loss - of - function cyp11a1 mutations ,  characterized by early - onset adrenal insufficiency without associated abnormal external male genitalia .
multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome describes a group of rare inborn errors of energy metabolism due to defects in mitochondrial  [ 4fe - 4s ]  protein assembly .
exfoliative ichthyosis is an inherited ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital ichthyosis characterized by the infancy - onset of palmoplantar peeling of the skin  ( aggravated by exposure to water and by occlusion )  associated with dry ,  scaly skin over most of the body .
juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibroma  ( jna )  is a rare and benign but locally aggressive fibrovascular tumor arising from the posterolateral wall of the nasopharynx ,  which affects mainly young and adolescent males  ( onset usually occurring between 7 - 19 years of age )  and that presents as a mass in the nasopharynx and nasal cavity ,  leading to manifestations such as nasal obstruction ,  epistaxis ,  profound facial swelling ,  proptosis or diplopia .
epstein - barr virus - positive diffuse large b - cell lymphoma of the elderly is a rare form of diffuse large b - cell lymphoma occurring most commonly in patients over the age of 50  ( usually between 70 - 75 years of age )  ,  without overt immunodeficiency ,  and presenting with nodal and extranodal involvement  ( in sites such as the stomach ,  lung ,  skin and pancreas )  and b symptoms  ( fever ,  night sweats ,  weight loss )  .
an aggressive diffuse large b - cell lymphoma frequently arising in the setting of hiv infection and characterized by the presence of large neoplastic cells resembling b - immunoblasts which have the immunophenotypic profile of plasma cells .
lymphoepithelial - like carcinoma is a rare ,  malignant epithelial tumor ,  composed of undifferentiated epithelial cells with dense lymphoid stroma ,  mimicking lymphoepithelioma .
a usually slow growing ,  subcutaneous nodular neoplasm arising from myopericytes .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of tryptophan metabolic process .
neonatal glycine encephalopathy is a frequent ,  usually severe form of glycine encephalopathy  ( ge )  characterized by coma ,  apnea ,  hypotonia ,  seizure and myoclonic jerks in the neonatal period ,  and subsequent developmental delay .
infantile glycine encephalopathy is a mild to severe form of glycine encephalopathy  ( ge )  ,  characterized by early hypotonia ,  developmental delay and seizures .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of proline metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of ornithine metabolic process .
a group of five inherited disorders caused by mutations in the auh ,  dnajc19 ,  opa3 ,  and taz genes .
vitamin b12 - unresponsive methylmalonic acidemia type mut0 is an inborn error of metabolism characterized by recurrent ketoacidotic comas or transient vomiting ,  dehydration ,  hypotonia and intellectual deficit ,  which does not respond to administration of vitamin b12 .
congenital rubella syndrome  ( crs )  is an infectious embryofetopathy that may present in an infant as a result of maternal infection and subsequent fetal infection with rubella virus .
neuralgic amyotrophy  ( na )  is an uncommon disorder of the peripheral nervous system characterized by the sudden onset of extreme pain in the upper extremity followed by rapid multifocal motor weakness and atrophy and a slow recovery in months to years .
idiopathic chronic eosinophilic pneumonia  ( icep )  is a very rare ,  severe ,  interstitial lung disease of insidious onset with subacute or chronic non - specific respiratory manifestations  ( dyspnea ,  cough ,  wheezing )  often associated with systemic manifestations  ( fatigue ,  malaise ,  weight loss )  .
poems syndrome is a paraneoplastic syndrome characterized by polyradiculoneuropathy  ( p )  ,  organomegaly  ( o )  ,  endocrinopathy  ( e )  ,  clonal plasma cell disorder  ( m )  ,  and skin changes  ( s )  .
hereditary paraganglioma - pheochromocytomas  ( pgl / pcc )  are rare neuroendocrine tumors represented by paragangliomas  ( occurring in any paraganglia from the skull base to the pelvic floor )  and pheochromocytomas  ( adrenal medullary paragangliomas )  .
rare head and neck neoplasia .
fetal varicella syndrome  ( cvs )  is an acquired developmental anomaly syndrome characterized by skin ,  neurological ,  ocular ,  limbs and growth defects secondary to maternal varicella - zoster virus  ( vzv )  infection .
an acute infectious disorder that affects the nervous system .
congenital viral infections with enteroviruses  ( ev )  including coxsackie viruses and echo viruses is an infectious embryofetopathy that have been reported to cause spontaneous abortion ,  stillbirth ,  fetal malformations and acute systemic illness in the newborn .
reactive arthritis  ( rea )  is an autoimmune disorder belonging to the group of seronegative spondyloarthropathies and is characterized by the classic triad of arthritis ,  urethritis and conjunctivitis .
preaxial polydactyly - colobomata - intellectual disability syndrome is characterised by growth retardation ,  intellectual deficit ,  preaxial polydactyly and colobomatous anomalies .
polyneuropathy - intellectual disability - acromicria - premature menopause syndrome is a rare genetic syndromic intellectual disability characterized by intellectual disability ,  polyneuropathy ,  short stature and short limbs ,  brachydactyly ,  and premature ovarian insufficiency .
juvenile gastrointestinal polyposis  ( jip )  is a rare condition characterized by the presence of juvenile hamartomatous polyps in the gastrointestinal  ( gi )  tract .
congenital herpes virus infection is a group of anomalies that an infant may present as a result of maternal infection and subsequent foetal infection with herpes virus .
a widespread acute rash characterized by fever and multiple small pustules on a reddish background .
a very rare severe form of epilepsy with poor prognosis that usually begins within a few weeks of birth .
an aggressive malignant mesenchymal neoplasm with skeletal muscle differentiation ,  occurring in adults and rarely in children .
an aggressive malignant neoplasm of uncertain differentiation ,  characterized by the presence of epithelioid cells forming nodular patterns .
tetrahydrobiopterin - responsive hyperphenylalaninemia /  phenylketonuria  ( bh4 - responsive hyperphenylalaninemia /  phenylketonuria )  is a form of phenylketonuria  ( pku )  ,  an inborn error of amino acid metabolism ,  characterized by mild to moderate symptoms of pku including impaired cognitive function ,  seizures ,  and behavioral and developmental disorders ,  and a marked reduction and normalization of elevated phenylalanine concentrations after oral loading with tetrahydrobiopterin  ( bh4 ;  sapropterin dihydrochloride )  ,  an essential cofactor of phenylalanine hydroxylase .
methylmalonic acidemia is an inborn error of vitamin b12 metabolism characterized by gastrointestinal and neurometabolic manifestations resulting from decreased function of the mitochondrial enzyme methylmalonyl - coa mutase .
grayson - wilbrandt corneal dystrophy  ( gwcd )  is an extremely rare form of corneal dystrophy characterized by variable patterns of opacification in the bowman layer of the cornea which extend anteriorly into the epithelium with decreased to normal visual acuity .
pre - descemet corneal dystrophy  ( pdcd )  is a rare form of stromal corneal dystrophy characterized by focal ,  fine ,  gray opacities in the deep stroma immediately anterior to the descemet membrane ,  with no effect on vision .
ketamine - induced biliary dilatation is an acquired biliary tract disease caused by the abusive consumption of ketamine ,  which results in the fusiform dilatation of the common bile ducts  ( cbd )  without obstructive lesions or dilatation of the intrahepatic biliary ducts .
3mc syndrome describes a rare developmental disorder ,  that unifies the overlapping autosomal recessive disorders previously known as carnevale ,  mingarelli ,  malpuech and michels syndromes ,  characterized by a spectrum of developmental anomalies that include distinctive facial dysmorphism  ( i .e .
right temporal lobar atrophy  ( rtla )  is an anatomic variant of frontotemporal dementia  ( ftd )  ,  characterized by behavioral dysfunction ,  personality changes ,  episodic memory loss ,  and prosopagnosia ;  attributable to an asymmetrical predominantly right - sided ,  frontotemporal atrophy .
hypoplastic pancreas - intestinal atresia - hypoplastic gallbladder syndrome is a rare ,  potentially fatal ,  genetic ,  visceral malformation syndrome characterized by neonatal diabetes ,  hypoplastic or annular pancreas ,  duodenal and jejunal atresia ,  as well as gallbladder aplasia or hypoplasia .
distal xq28 microduplication syndrome is a rare ,  hereditary ,  syndromic intellectual disability characterized by cognitive impairment ,  behavioral and psychiatric problems ,  recurrent infections ,  atopic diseases ,  and distinctive facial features in males .
1p21 .3 microdeletion syndrome is an extremely rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by severe speech and language delay ,  intellectual deficiency ,  autism spectrum disorder .
a very rare disorder that appears after the first year and a half of life in previously healthy children .
an infection with the cytomegalovirus that is present from birth .
porencephaly is characterized by a circumscribed intracerebral cavity of variable size that may be bordered by abnormal polymicrogyric grey matter .
neonatal inflammatory skin and bowel disease is a rare ,  life - threatening ,  autoinflammatory syndrome with immune deficiency disorder characterized by early - onset ,  life - long inflammation ,  affecting the skin and bowel ,  associated with recurrent infections .
rare nevus .
postpoliomyelitis syndrome  ( pps )  is a neurologic disorder characterized by the development of new neuromuscular symptoms such as progressive muscular weakness or abnormal muscle fatigability occurring in survivors of the acute paralytic form of poliomyelitis ,  15 - 40 years after recovery from the disease ,  and that is unexplained by other medical causes .
renal - hepatic - pancreatic dysplasia is a rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by the triad of pancreatic fibrosis  ( and cysts ,  with a reduction of parenchymal tissue )  ,  renal dysplasia  ( with peripheral cortical cysts ,  primitive collecting ducts ,  glomerular cysts and metaplastic cartilage )  and hepatic dysgenesis  ( enlarged portal areas containing numerous elongated binary profiles with a tendancy to perilobular fibrosis )  .
chronic intestinal failure  ( cif )  is a chronic type of intestinal failure characterized by a nonfunctioning small bowel  ( that may be reversible or irreversal )  where the body is unable to maintain energy and nutritional needs through absorption of food or nutrients via the intestinal tract  ( despite being metabolically stable )  and which therefore necessitates long - term parenteral feeding .
a congenital malformation characterized by the complete absence of all limbs .
preaxial polydactyly of fingers is a limb malformation syndrome characterized by the attachment of a superfluous digit on the first digit .
a rare ,  autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the irf6 gene .
a syndrome characterized by congenital nonprogressive joint contractures .
a non - syndromic amelia that involves the forelimb .
a non - syndromic amelia that involves the hindlimb .
humeral agenesis / hypoplasia is a rare ,  non - syndromic limb reduction defect characterized by the unilateral or bilateral presence of a short arm with completely absent or underdeveloped humerus ,  frequently associated with ulnar and / or radial malformations .
a congenital malformation in which the upper portion of a limb is either shortened or absent .
congenital absence of both forearm and hand is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by unilateral or bilateral arrest of proximal to distal development of the upper limb ,  leading to a transverse deficiency with absence of the forearm ,  wrist and hand .
congenital absence / hypoplasia of thumb is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by underdevelopment of the thumb ,  ranging from a slight decrease in thumb size to complete absence of the thumb .
split hand is a rare ,  non - syndromic limb reduction defect ,  clinically and genetically heterogeneous ,  characterized by bilateral or unilateral underdevelopment or absence of the central rays of the autopod ,  with absence of all or just some of the central phalanges and at least part of the associated metacarpal bones ,  yielding a cleft appearance of the hand .
a non - syndromic brachydactyly that involves the manus .
a non - syndromic brachydactyly that involves the pes .
foetal parvovirus syndrome is a foetopathy likely to occur when a pregnant woman is infected by parvovirus b19 .
triphalangeal thumb - polysyndactyly syndrome  ( tpt - ps )  is a hand - foot malformation characterized by triphalangeal thumbs and pre -  and postaxial polydactyly ,  isolated syndactyly or complex polysyndactyly .
hyperphalangy is a congenital ,  non - syndromic limb malformation characterized by the presence of an accessory phalanx between metacarpal / metatarsal and proximal phalanx ,  or between any two other phalanges of a digit ,  excluding the thumb .
syndactyly type 6 is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital limb malformation characterized by unilateral fusion of second to fifth fingers ,  amalgamation of distal phalanges in a knot - like structure ,  and second -  and third - toe fusion .
familial isolated clinodactyly of fingers is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital limb malformation characterized by angulation of a digit in the radio - ulnar  ( coronal )  plane ,  away from the axis of joint flexion - extension ,  in several members of a single family with no other associated manifestations .
a condition characterized by non - union of the tibia ,  which is present at birth .
tibio - fibular synostosis is a rare ,  non - syndromic limb malformation characterized by fusion of the proximal or distal tibial and fibular metaphysis and / or diaphysis ,  frequently associated with distal positioning of the proximal tibiofibular joint ,  leg length discrepancy ,  bowing of the fibula ,  and valgus deformity of the knee .
lower limb hypertrophy is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by uni -  or bilateral overgrowth of lower limbs involving bones and / or soft tissues and resulting in an abnormal increase in leg length and / or width .
congenital absence of both forearm and hand ,  unilateral is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by a unilateral ,  transverse absence of the radius and ulna  ( of varying terminal lengths )  ,  as well as all the elements composing the hand .
congenital absence of both forearm and hand ,  bilateral is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by a bilateral ,  transverse absence of the radius and ulna  ( of varying terminal lengths )  ,  as well as all the elements composing the hand .
congenital absence / hypoplasia of thumb ,  unilateral is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by the unilateral underdevelopment of the thumb ,  ranging from a slight decrease in thumb size to complete absence of the thumb .
congenital absence / hypoplasia of thumb ,  bilateral is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by bilateral underdevelopment of the thumbs ,  ranging from a slight decrease in thumb size to complete absence of the thumbs .
split hand ,  unilateral is a rare ,  non - syndromic limb reduction defect ,  clinically and genetically heterogeneous ,  characterized by unilateral underdevelopment or absence of the central rays of the autopod ,  with absence of all ,  or just some ,  of the central phalanges and at least part of the associated metacarpal bones ,  yielding a cleft appearance of the hand .
split hand ,  bilateral is a rare ,  non - syndromic limb reduction defect ,  clinically and genetically heterogeneous ,  characterized by bilateral underdevelopment or absence of the central rays of the autopod ,  with absence of all ,  or just some ,  of the central phalanges and at least part of the associated metacarpal bones ,  yielding a cleft appearance of the hand .
an abnormal alignment of the knee backwards that is due to a deformity in the knee joint .
acrodysplasia scoliosis is a rare ,  genetic dysostosis disorder characterized by brachydactyly and other finger / toe anomalies  ( short and / or wide metacarpals ,  abnormal or absent metatarsals ,  broad halluces )  ,  carpal synostosis ,  fused cervical vertebrae ,  scoliosis and spina bifida occulta .
a rare autosomal recessive genetic disorder characterized by facial dysmorphism  ( down - slanting palpebral fissures ,  a broad flat nasal bridge and a small mouth )  with a progeroid appearance ,  large and late - closing fontanel ,  cutis laxa  ( cl )  ,  joint hyperlaxity ,  athetoid movements and hyperreflexia ,  pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  intellectual deficit and developmental delay ,  and corneal clouding and cataract .
leukocyte adhesion deficiency  ( lad )  is a primary immunodeficiency characterized by defects in the leukocyte adhesion process ,  marked leukocytosis and recurrent infections .
proteus - like syndrome describes patients who do not meet the diagnostic criteria for proteus syndrome but who share a multitude of characteristic clinical features of the disease .
tick - borne encephalitis is caused by an arbovirus of the flaviviridae family  ( tick - borne encephalitis virus ,  tbev )  ,  transmitted principally by the bite of the ixodes ricinus tick .
46 , xx disorder of sex development - anorectal anomalies syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by a normal female karyotype ,  normal ovaries ,  male or ambiguous genitalia ,  urinary tract malformations  ( ranging from bilateral renal agenesis to mild unilateral hydronephrosis )  ,  mllerian duct anomalies  ( e .g .
chronic intestinal pseudo - obstruction  ( cipo )  is a rare gastrointestinal motility disorder characterized by recurring episodes resembling mechanical obstruction in the absence of organic ,  systemic ,  or metabolic disorders ,  and without any physical obstruction being detected by x - ray or during surgery .
mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy  ( mngie )  syndrome is characterized by the association of gastrointestinal dysmotility ,  peripheral neuropathy ,  chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia and leukoencephalopathy .
conditions affecting individuals with 46 , xx karyotype characterized by atypical development of one or more of the following: the gonads ,  the internal reproductive structures ,  the external reproductive / genital structures .
spontaneous periodic hypothermia  ( sph )  is a neurological disorder characterized by spontaneous periodic hypothermia and hyperhidrosis in the absence of hypothalamic lesions .
baraitser - winter syndrome  ( bws )  is a malformation syndrome ,  characterized by facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism with ptosis ,  broad bulbous nose ,  ridged metopic suture ,  arched eyebrows ,  progressive coarsening of the face )  ,  ocular coloboma ,  pachygyria and / or band heterotopias with antero - posterior gradient ,  progressive joint stiffening ,  and intellectual deficit of variable severity ,  often with severe epilepsy .
11p15 .4 microduplication syndrome is a rare partial autosomal trisomy / tetrasomy characterized by obesity ,  global developmental delay and intellectual disability ,  facial dysmorphism  ( synophrys ,  high - arched eyebrows ,  large posteriorly rotated ears ,  upturned nose ,  long smooth philtrum ,  overbite and high palate )  ,  large hands and limb hypotonia .
a rare adenocarcinoma with poor prognosis ,  arising from the adenohypophysial cells of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland or pre - existing adenomas .
mirror polydactyly - vertebral segmentation - limbs defects syndrome is characterised by mirror polydactyly ,  vertebral hypersegmentation and severe congenital limb deficiencies .
a rare bone disease that arises due to secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with chronic renal failure receiving dialysis characterized by 'uglifying' the appearance of the face
onychocytic matricoma is a rare tumor of the nail that is generally benign .
a neoplasm involving a uberon:0002283 .
a neoplasm involving a nail .
follicular cholangitis and pancreatitis is a rare pancreatobiliary disease characterized by marked duct - centered lymphoid follicular inflammation that develops in both biliary and pancreatic ductal systems ,  mainly affecting the hilar bile ducts and the pancreatic head .
a carcinoma arising from the ampulla of vater .
juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis  ( jals )  is a very rare severe motor neuron disease characterized by progressive upper and lower motor neuron degeneration causing facial spasticity ,  dysarthria ,  and gait disorders with onset before 25 years of age .
a diffuse large b - cell lymphoma arising from the central nervous system .
t - cell / histiocyte rich large b cell lymphoma  ( thrlbcl )  is a rare variant of diffuse large b - cell lymphoma  ( dlbcl )  ,  mainly affecting middle - aged men and often not being discovered until an advanced disease stage ,  with involvement of the spleen ,  liver and bone marrow occurring at a greater frequency than in dlbcl .
primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma  ( c - alcl )  is a rare t - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma that affects the skin and generally shows no extracutaneous involvement at presentation .
splenic diffuse red pulp small b - cell lymphoma is a rare ,  indolent b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma characterized by abnormal proliferation of small ,  monomorphous ,  basophilic b - lymphocytes ,  with villous cytoplasm ,  in the splenic red pulp ,  bone marrow and peripheral blood .
hairy cell leukemia variant  ( hcl - v )  is defined as a rare and indolent form of small ,  mature ,  b - cell leukemia characterized by splenomegaly ,  an elevated white blood cell  ( wbc )  count and hyper - cellular bone marrow .
diffuse large b - cell lymphoma with chronic inflammation is an epstein - barr virus - associated malignant lymphoproliferative disorder ,  developing in a context of long - standing or slow - growing ,  chronically inflamed lesions ,  such as chronic pyothorax ,  metallic implants in bones and joints ,  chronic osteomyelitis ,  chronic venous ulcer ,  or ,  rarely granulomatous inflammation .
alk - positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma  ( alk +  alcl )  is a type of alcl ,  a rare and aggressive peripheral t - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma affecting lymph nodes and extranodal sites ,  which is characterized by the expression of a protein called anaplastic lymphoma kinase  ( alk )  .
alk - negative anaplastic large cell lymphoma  ( alk -  alcl )  is a type of alcl ,  a rare and aggressive peripheral t - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma affecting lymph nodes and extranodal sites ,  which is characterized by the lack of expression of a protein called anaplastic lymphoma kinase  ( alk )  .
a usually indolent mature b - cell lymphoma ,  arising from the marginal zone of lymphoid tissues .
caudal regression sequence is a rare congenital malformation of the lower spinal segments associated with aplasia or hypoplasia of the sacrum and lumbar spine .
dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  is a form of inherited epidermolysis bullosa  ( eb )  characterized by cutaneous and mucosal fragility resulting in blisters and superficial ulcerations that develop below the lamina densa of the cutaneous basement membrane and that heal with significant scarring and milia formation .
renal tubular dysgenesis is a rare disorder of the fetus characterized by absent or poorly developed proximal tubules of the kidneys ,  persistent oligohydramnios ,  leading to potter sequence  ( facial dysmorphism with large and flat low - set ears ,  lung hypoplasia arthrogryposis and limb positioning defects )  ,  and skull ossification defects .
epidermolysis bullosa simplex  ( ebs )  is a group of hereditary epidermolysis bullosa  ( heb )  disorders characterized by skin fragility resulting in intraepidermal blisters and erosions that occur either spontaneously or after physical trauma .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the pituitary gland .
junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  is a form of inherited epidermolysis bullosa characterized by involvement of the skin and mucous membranes ,  and is defined by the formation of blistering lesions between the epidermis and the dermis at the lamina lucida level of the cutaneous basement membrane zone and by healing of lesions with atrophy and / or exuberant granulation tissue formation .
x - linked intellectual disability - hypogonadism - ichthyosis - obesity - short stature syndrome is a rare x - linked intellectual disability syndrome characterized by intellectual disability associated with short stature ,  obesity ,  primary hypogonadism and an ichthyosiform skin condition .
benign familial infantile epilepsy  ( bfie )  is a genetic epileptic syndrome characterized by the occurrence of afebrile repeated seizures in healthy infants ,  between the third and eighth month of life .
a acquired immunodeficiency that occurs in an adult .
a group of clinically heterogeneous disorders united by a germline pten mutation and the involvement of derivatives of all 3 germ cell layers ,  manifesting with hamartomas ,  overgrowth and neoplasia .
familial primary hypomagnesemia with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis  ( fhhnc )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  ,  characterized by renal magnesium  ( mg )  and calcium  ( ca )  wasting ,  nephrocalcinosis ,  kidney failure and ,  in some cases ,  severe ocular impairment .
familial primary hypomagnesemia with normocalcuria  ( fphn )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  which is characterized by low magnesium values but normal calcium values in the serum .
congenital hereditary facial paralysis - variable hearing loss syndrome is an extremely rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by bilateral facial palsy with masked facies ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  dysmorphic features  ( midfacial retrusion ,  low - set ears )  ,  and strabismus .
an x - linked form of l1 syndrome characterized by spastic paraplegia ,  mild to moderate intellectual disability ,  normal mri of the brain .
any of the forms of liver and intrahepatic bile duct neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
hemiparkinsonism - hemiatrophy syndrome is a rare parkinsonian disorder characterized by unilateral body atrophy and slowly progressive ,  ipsilateral hemiparkinsonian signs  ( bradykinesia ,  rigidity ,  and tremor )  .
manganese poisoning is associated with chronic inhalation of manganese particles by individuals who work with manganese ore . clinical features include confusion ;  hallucinations ;  and an extrapyramidal syndrome  ( parkinson disease ,  secondary )  that includes rigidity ;  dystonia ;  retropulsion ;  and tremor .
cyanide - induced parkinsonism is a rare parkinsonian syndrome due to intoxication which develops in individuals surviving an acute cyanide intoxication episode or due to chronic exposure to small cyanide doses .
hemidystonia - hemiatrophy  ( hd - ha )  is a rare dystonia ,  usually caused by a static cerebral injury occurring at birth or during infancy ,  that is characterized by a combination of hemidystonia  ( hd )  ,  involving one half of the body ,  and hemiatrophy  ( ha )  on the same side as the hd .
a neurologic disorder classically characterised by pronounced startle responses to tactile or acoustic stimuli and hypertonia
a diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma that is not part of a larger syndrome .
intellectual disability - short stature - hypertelorism syndrome is a rare genetic syndromic intellectual disability affecting males characterized by short stature ,  mild to moderate intellectual deficits ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( prominent broad 'square' forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  depressed nasal bridge ,  broad nasal tip and anteverted nares )  and early hypotonia present only until the age of 2 .
a focal palmoplantar keratoderma that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a disease in which focal palmoplantar keratoderma is a major feature . .
a palmoplantar keratosis characterized by keratoses with a  \ "raindrop \ " pattern on the palmoplantar surface ,  skin lesions which may involve the whole of the palmoplantar surface ,  or may be more restricted in their distribution .
a disease in which punctate palmoplantar keratoderma is a major feature . .
erythrokeratoderma variabilis progressiva  ( ekvp )  is a type of erythrokeratoderma characterized by the association of hyperkeratosis and erythema in persistent ,  although sometimes variable ,  circumscribed lesions .
intellectual disability - polydactyly - uncombable hair syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by intellectual disability ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  phalangeal hypoplasia ,  2 - 3 toe syndactyly ,  uncombable hair and facial dysmorphism  ( including frontal bossing ,  hypotelorism ,  narrow palpebral fissures ,  nasal bridge and lips ,  prominent nasal root ,  large abnormal ears with prominent antihelix ,  poorly folded helix ,  underdeveloped lobule and antitragus ,  and micrognathia evolving into prognatism )  .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of aminoacylase activity .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of neutral amino acid transport .
glycogen storage disease due to acid maltase deficiency ,  infantile onset is the most severe form of glycogen storage disease due to acid maltase deficiency ,  characterized by cardiomegaly with respiratory distress ,  muscle weakness and feeding difficulties .
an instance of partial epilepsy that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
congenital pulmonary venous return anomaly is a cardiac malformation where some or all of the pulmonary veins drain into the right atrium or the systemic veins ,  with or without the presence of pulmonary venous obstruction ,  leading to various manifestations such as fatigue ,  exertional dyspnea ,  pulmonary arterial hypertension ,  cyanosis and progressive congestive heart failure .
 \ "combined pancreatic lipase - colipase deficiency is a disorder of lipid absorption and transport characterized by steatorrhea with foul - smelling stools from birth ,  diminished serum carotene and vitamin e and a combined deficiency of the pancreatic enzymes lipase and colipase .
a group of autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorders marked by the accumulation of gangliosides .
a group of recessively inherited diseases characterized by the intralysosomal accumulation of g ( m2 )  ganglioside in the neuronal cells .
a sandhoff disease that occurs in an adult .
fixed subaortic stenosis  ( fss )  is a rare heart malformation characterized by the obstruction by membranous or fibromuscular tissue of the left ventricular outflow tract  ( lvot )  below the aortic valve ,  that occurs as an isolated lesion or in association with additional cardiac malformations  ( e .g .
sialidosis is a lysosomal storage disease ,  belonging to the group of oligosaccharidoses or glycoproteinoses ,  with a wide clinical spectrum that is divided into two main clinical subtypes: sialidosis type i ,  the milder ,  non dysmorphic form of the disease characterized by gait abnormalities ,  progressive visual loss ,  bilateral macular cherry red spots and myoclonus ,  that presents in adolescence or adulthood  ( second or third decade of life )  ;  and sialidosis type ii the more severe ,  early onset form ,  characterized by a progressive and severe mucopolysaccharidosis - like phenotype with coarse facies ,  visceromegaly ,  dysostosis multiplex ,  and developmental delay .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of protein n - linked glycosylation .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of protein o - linked glycosylation .
atypical rett syndrome  ( atypical rtt )  is a neurodevelopmental disorder that is diagnosed when a child presents with a rett - like syndrome but does not fulfill all the diagnostic criteria for typical rett syndrome  ( classic / typical rtt )  .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of porphyrin - containing compound metabolic process .
an instance of bilirubin metabolism disease that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of cellular copper ion homeostasis .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of magnesium ion transport .
rheumatic fever  ( rf )  is a multisystem inflammatory disease occurring as a post - infectious ,  nonsuppurative sequela of untreated streptococcus pyogenes  ( group a streptococcus  [ gas ]  )  pharyngitis ,  and mainly occurs in individuals aged 5 to 15 years .
reflex epilepsy refers to epilepsies where recurrent seizures are provoked by a clearly defined extrinsic  ( most commonly )  or intrinsic triggering stimuli such as flashing lights  ( photosensitive epilepsy )  ,  startling noises  ( startle epilepsy )  ,  urinating  ( micturition induced seizures )  ,  exposure to hot - water  ( hot water epilepsy )  ,  eating ,  reading ,  and thinking ,  while being associated with an enduring abnormal predisposition to have such seizures  ( thereby meeting the conceptual definition of epilepsy )  .
robinow - like syndrome is characterized by the association of the clinical features present in robinow syndrome  ( short stature ,  mesomelic brachymelia ,  macrocephaly ,  and hypoplastic genitalia )  ,  with anterior chamber cleavage anomalies .
mayer - rokitansky - kster - hauser  ( mrkh )  syndrome describes a spectrum of mullerian duct anomalies characterized by congenital aplasia of the uterus and upper 2 / 3 of the vagina in otherwise phenotypically normal females .
a metabolic disorder characterized by deficiency of high density  ( alpha )  lipoprotein in the blood .
hypobetalipoproteinemia  ( hbl )  constitutes a group of lipoprotein metabolism disorders that are characterized by permanently low levels  ( below the 5th percentile )  of apolipoprotein b and ldl cholesterol .
an infection that is caused by burkholderia pseudomallei ,  which is found in soil and water ;  symptoms vary widely ,  but most commonly include fever ,  cough ,  pneumonia ,  arthralgia ,  myalgia ,  and skin ulceration .
nocardiosis is a local  ( skin ,  lung ,  brain )  or disseminated  ( whole body )  acute ,  subacute ,  or chronic bacterial infection .
lamellar ichthyosis  ( li )  is a keratinization disorder characterized by the presence of large scales all over the body without significant erythroderma .
alpha - n - acetylgalactosaminidase  ( naga )  deficiency is a very rare lysosomal storage disease that is clinically and pathologically heterogeneous and is characterized by deficient naga activity .
20p13 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by developmental delay ,  mild to moderate intellectual disability ,  epilepsy ,  and unspecific dysmorphic signs .
developmental and speech delay due to sox5 deficiency is a rare genetic syndromic intellectual disability characterized by mild to severe global developmental delay ,  intellectual disability and behavioral abnormalities ,  hypotonia ,  strabismus ,  optic nerve hypoplasia and mild facial dysmorphic features  ( down slanting palpebral fissures ,  frontal bossing ,  crowded teeth ,  auricular abnormalities and prominent philtral ridges )  .
epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  - associated gastric carcinoma  ( ebvagc )  is a rare form of gastric carcinoma  ( seen in approximately 10% of cases )  with a male predominance ,  characterized by a latent ebv infection in gastric carcinoma cells ,  diffuse - type histology ,  a proximal location  ( in the body and cardia of the stomach )  and a relatively favorable prognosis .
pens syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  neurocutaneous syndrome characterized by the presence of randomly distributed ,  small ,  white to yellowish ,  multiple ,  rounded or irregular polycyclically - shaped ,  epidermal keratotic papules and plaques of ''gem - like'' appearance with a rough surface ,  typically located on the trunk and proximal limbs ,  associated with variable neurological abnormalities ,  including psychomotor delay ,  epilepsy ,  speech and language impairment and attention deficit - hyperactivity disorder .
2q23 .1 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 2 ,  primarily characterized by global developmental delay ,  hypotonia ,  autistic - like features and behavioural problems .
idiopathic linear interstitial keratitis is a rare ,  acquired ocular disease characterized by migratory or non - migratory ,  horizontal ,  linear ,  stromal infiltrates that may heal spontaneously .
gastric adenocarcinoma and proximal polyposis of the stomach  ( gapps )  is a rare hereditary gastric cancer characterized by proximal gastric polyposis and increased risk of early - onset ,  intestinal - type adenocarcinoma of the gastric body ,  with no duodenal or colorectal polyposis .
7p22 .1 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial interstitial microduplication of the short arm of chromosome 7 ,  characterized by intellectual disability ,  psychomotor and speech delays ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( including macrocephaly ,  frontal bossing ,  hypertelorism ,  abnormally slanted palpebral fissures ,  anteverted nares ,  low - set ears ,  microretrognathia )  and cryptorchidia .
xq12 - q13 .3 duplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome x ,  characterized by global developmental delay ,  autistic behavior ,  microcephaly and facial dysmorphism  ( including down - slanting palpebral fissures ,  depressed nasal bridge ,  anteverted nares ,  long philtrum ,  down - slanting corners of the mouth )  .
the most common odontogenic tumor ,  arising from the epithelial component of the embryonic tooth and usually affecting the molar - ramus region of the mandible or maxilla .
any of the forms of odontogenic neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
a rare syndrome affecting females .
10cm )  are often associated with pleural effusion and ascytes  ( the meig's syndrome triad )  .
autosomal recessive leukoencephalopathy - ischemic stroke - retinitis pigmentosa syndrome is a rare neurologic disease characterized by global developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  multiple ischemic lesions in brain mri ,  behavioral abnormalities ,  dystonia ,  choreic movements and pyramidal syndrome ,  facial dysmorphism  ( hypertelorism ,  arched palate ,  macroglossia )  ,  retinitis pigmentosa ,  scoliosis ,  seizures .
15q overgrowth syndrome is a rare partial autosomal trisomy / tetrasomy characterized by facial dysmorphism  ( long thin face ,  prominent forehead ,  down - slanting palpebral fissures ,  prominent nose with broad nasal bridge ,  prominent chin )  ,  pre -  and postnatal overgrowth ,  renal anomalies  ( e .g .
a condition characterized by the presence of a growing mature teratoma in a patient during or after chemotherapy for a non - seminomatous germ cell tumor ,  with normal serum markers for human chorionic gonadotropin and alpha fetoprotein .
#946 ; 2m )  leading to progressive gastrointestinal dysfunction ,  sjc6gren syndrome and autonomic neuropathy .
cerebrofacioarticular syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by mild to severe intellectual disability ,  a distinctive facial gestalt  ( blepharophimosis ,  maxillary hypoplasia ,  telecanthus ,  microtia and atresia of the external auditory meatus )  as well as skeletal and articular abnormalities  ( e .g .
a rare non - hodgkin lymphoma or even more rarely ,  a hodgkin lymphoma that arises from the bone ,  without lymph node or other extranodal involvement .
an instance of porencephaly that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
primary systemic amyloidosis  ( psa )  is a form of al amyloidosis caused by the aggregation and deposition of insoluble amyloid fibrils derived from misfolded monoclonal immunoglobulin light chains usually produced by a plasma cell tumor and characterized by multiple organ involvement .
primary localized amyloidosis is a form of al amyloidosis caused by the aggregation of insoluble amyloid fibrils derived from misfolded monoclonal immunoglobulin light chains usually produced by a plasma cell tumor and characterized by localized amyloid deposition with clinical manifestations restricted to the organ involved ,  most frequently urinary tract  ( bladder )  ,  eye ,  respiratory tract  ( larynx ,  lungs )  ,  and skin .
a disease in which cushing syndrome is a major feature .
malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor  ( mpnst )  is a rare and often aggressive soft tissue sarcoma occurring in a wide range of anatomical sites .
autosomal dominant proximal renal tubular acidosis  ( ad prta )  is a form of proximal renal tubular acidosis  ( prta )  characterized by an isolated defect in the proximal tubule leading to the decreased reabsorption of bicarbonate and consequently causing urinary bicarbonate wastage .
severe canavan disease  ( cd )  is a rapidly progressing neurodegenerative disorder characterized by leukodystrophy with macrocephaly ,  severe developmental delay and hypotonia .
mild canavan disease  ( cd )  is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by mild speech delay or motor development .
a disease caused by infection with mycobacterium xenopi .
erythrokeratoderma 'en cocardes' is a rare genodermatosis characterised by circumscribed target - like  ( or 'en cocardes' )  erythematous hyperkeratotic lesions .
multiple sclerosis - ichthyosis - factor viii deficiency syndrome is characterized by the association of multiple sclerosis with lamellar ichthyosis and hematological anomalies  ( beta thalassemia minor and a quantitative deficit of factor viii - von willebrand complex )  .
sclerosteosis is a very rare serious sclerosing hyperostosis syndrome characterized clinically by variable syndactyly and progressive skeletal overgrowth  ( particularly of the skull )  ,  resulting in distinctive facial features  ( mandibular overgrowth ,  frontal bossing ,  midfacial hypoplasia )  ,  cranial nerve entrapment causing facial palsy and deafness ,  and potentially lethal elevation of intracranial pressure .
the salt wasting form of classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21 - hydroxylase deficiency  ( classical 21 ohd cah )  is characterized by virilization of the external genitalia in females ,  hypocortisolism ,  precocious pseudopuberty and renal salt loss due to aldosterone deficiency .
the simple virilizing form of classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21 - hydroxylase deficiency  ( classical 21 ohd cah )  is characterized by genital ambiguity and virilization of the external genitalia in females ,  hypocortisolism and precocious pseudopuberty without salt - wasting .
a hypersensitivity reaction type ii disease that involves the skin of body .
senior - loken syndrome  ( slsn )  is a very rare autosomal recessive oculo - renal disease characterized by the association of nephronophthisis  ( nphp )  ,  a chronic kidney disease ,  with retinal dystrophy .
a rare congenital abnormality of the lungs .
sezary syndrome  ( ss )  is an aggressive form of cutaneous t - cell lymphoma characterized by a triad of erythroderma ,  lymphadenopathy and circulating atypical lymphocytes  ( sezary cells )  .
autosomal dominant form of spastic ataxia .
autosomal recessive form of spastic ataxia .
siegler - brewer - carey syndrome is characterized by cataracts ,  otitis media ,  intestinal malabsorption ,  chronic respiratory infection ,  and failure to thrive .
sirenomelia is a rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis disorder characterized by fusion of the lower limbs and associated with some degree of lower extremity reduction and persistent vitelline artery .
a rare genetic chronic skin disorder characterized by hyperkeratosis and transient erythema .
infantile spasms - broad thumbs syndrome is a rare neurologic disorder characterized by profound developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism  ( i .e .
hypersensitivity pneumonitis  ( hp )  is a pulmonary disease with symptoms of dyspnea and cough resulting from the inhalation of an antigen to which the subject has been previously sensitized .
t - b -  severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  is a group of rare monogenic primary immunodeficiency disorders characterized by a lack of functional peripheral t and b lymphocytes ,  resulting in recurrent early - onset severe respiratory viral ,  bacterial or fungal infections ,  diarrhea and failure to thrive .
spina bifida - hypospadias syndrome is a rare developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by the specific association of glandular hypospadias and lumbo - sacral spina bifida .
an acute myeloid leukemia characterized by a predominant immature erythroid population .
a potentially life - threatening poisoning ,  due to ingestion of the drug or consumption of the plant colchicum autumnale ,  that usually begins with gastrointestinal symptoms  ( e .g .
methanol poisoning is a rare poisoning resulting in elevated anion gap metabolic acidosis ,  due to the alcohol dehydrogenase  ( adh )  - mediated production of formic acid  ( which is poisonous to the central nervous system )  ,  and characterized by dizziness ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  confusion ,  metabolic acidosis ,  visual disturbances  ( which if left untreated can lead to blindness )  ,  coma ,  and death  ( due to respiratory failure )  .
ethylene glycol poisoning is a rare poisoning resulting in elevated anion gap metabolic acidosis ,  due to the production of glycolic acid ,  glyoxylic acid ,  and oxalic acid by alcohol dehydrogenase  ( adh )  in the liver when ethylene glycol is metabolized ,  characterized initially by euphoria ,  slurred speech ,  encephalopathy ,  coma and seizures ,  and followed by late manifestations such as tachycardia ,  arrhythmias ,  myocardial depression ,  hemodynamic imbalance and ,  finally ,  acute renal failure .
paraquat poisoning is a rare intoxication with paraquat  ( a non - selective bipyridilium herbicide that has been banned in europe )  ,  usually occurring through ingestion of the poison ,  and that presents with caustic injury of the oral cavity and pharynx ,  as well as nausea ,  vomiting ,  epigastric pain ,  lethargy ,  loss of consciousness and fever .
digitalis  ( digoxin )  poisoning is a potentially life - threatening poisoning that provokes conduction disturbances ,  characterized by increased automaticity and decreased conduction .
congenital pulmonary vein  ( pv )  stenosis or atresia is a rare progressive life - threatening great vessels anomaly characterized by narrowing and obstruction of one or more normally positioned pv at their junction with the left atrium ,  that usually presents during early infancy with dyspnea ,  tachypnea ,  and repeated pulmonary infections ,  and eventually ,  when all pv of one lung are affected ,  results in pulmonary hypertension  ( ph )  and consecutive pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  .
congenital pulmonary stenosis  ( ps )  is a congenital heart malformation that is characterized by a right ventricular outflow obstruction with a clinical presentation that may vary from critical stenosis presenting in the neonatal period to asymptomatic mild stenosis .
distal 17p13 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome characterized by mild global developmental delay / intellectual disability with poor to absent speech ,  dysmorphic features  ( long midface ,  retrognathia with overbite ,  protruding ears )  ,  microcephaly ,  failure to thrive ,  wide - based gait and a body posture with knee and elbow flexion and hands held in a midline .
diencephalic - mesencephalic junction dysplasia is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic cerebral malformation characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  progressive postnatal microcephaly ,  axial hypotonia ,  spastic quadriparesis ,  seizures and facial dysmorphism  ( bushy eyebrows ,  hairy forehead ,  broad nasal root ,  long flat philtrum ,  v - shaped upper lip )  .
chondroectodermal dysplasia with night blindness is a rare genetic bone development disorder characterized by proportionate short stature ,  nail dysplasia  ( enlarged ,  convex ,  hypertrophic nails )  ,  hypodontia and night blindness .
lujo hemorrhagic fever ,  caused by the lujo virus  ( a newly discovered old world arenavirus )  is a zoonotic disease from zambia ,  africa ,  whose reservoir is unknown and is characterized by fever and hemorrhagic manifestations with an extremely high fatality rate of 80%  ( in the 5 reported cases to date )  and a moderate to high level of nosocomial transmission .
argentine hemorrhagic fever  ( ahf )  ,  caused by the junin virus  ( junv )  ,  is an acute viral hemorrhagic disease characterized by initial fever and malaise followed by gastrointestinal symptoms and in some cases hemorrhagic and neurological manifestations .
bolivian hemorrhagic fever  ( bhf )  ,  caused by the machupo virus  ( macv )  ,  is a severe acute viral hemorrhagic fever characterized by fever ,  myalgia ,  and arthralgia followed by hemorrhagic and neurological manifestations .
venezuelan hemorrhagic fever  ( vhf )  ,  caused by the guanarito virus ,  is a viral hemorrhagic disease characterized by fever ,  headache ,  arthralgia ,  sore throat ,  convulsions ,  and hemorrhagic manifestations .
brazilian hemorrhagic fever ,  caused by the sabia virus  ( a newly discovered arenavirus )  ,  is a viral hemorrhagic fever ,  believed to originate from sao paulo ,  brazil ,  with only 3 reported cases  ( 2 of which were due to laboratory accidents )  to date ,  characterized by fever ,  nausea vomiting myalgia tremors ,  and hemorragic manifestations such as conjunctival petechia and haematemesis ,  leading potentially to shock ,  coma and death .
chapare hemorrhagic fever ,  caused by the chapare virus  ( a new arenavirus )  ,  discovered from a small outbreak in cochabamba ,  bolivia between 2003 and 2004 ,  is an acute viral hemorrhagic fever characterized by fever ,  myalgia ,  arthralgia ,  and multiple hemorrhagic signs .
an infection caused by hantaviruses .
rift valley fever  ( rvf )  ,  caused by the rift valley fever virus  ( rvfv )  ,  is an arbovirus characterized by a usually self - limiting febrile illness but that in some cases can also manifest with thrombosis ,  vision loss ,  hemorrhages and / or neurological symptoms .
kyasanura forest disease  ( kfd )  ,  caused by the kfd virus ,  is an arbovirus characterized by an initial fever ,  headache and myalgia that can progress to a hemorrhagic disease and that in some cases is followed by a second phase characterized by neurological manifestations .
omsk hemorrhagic fever  ( ohf )  ,  caused by omsk hemorrhagic fever virus  ( ohfv )  ,  is a zoonotic disease characterized by fever ,  nausea ,  myalgia and moderately severe hemorrhagic manifestations as well as in some cases meningitis ,  pneumonia and nephrosis .
papillary renal cell carcinoma is a rare subtype of renal cell carcinoma ,  arising from the renal tubular epithelium and showing a papillary growth pattern ,  which typically manifests with hematuria ,  flank pain ,  palpable abdominal mass or nonspecific symptoms ,  such as fatigue ,  weight loss or fever .
chromophobe renal cell carcinoma is a rare subtype of renal cell carcinoma ,  originating from the intercalating cells of the collecting ducts and macroscopically manifesting as a well - circumscribed ,  highly lobulated ,  solid tumor that is usually diagnosed at an early stage .
mit family translocation renal cell carcinoma  ( t - rcc )  is a rare subtype of renal cell carcinoma with recurrent genetic abnormalities ,  harboring rearrangements of the tfe3  ( xp11 t - rcc )  or tfeb  [ t ( 6 ; 11 )  t - rcc ]  genes .
renal cell carcinoma that develops in patients who are long - term survivors of childhood neuroblastoma .
tubulocystic renal cell carcinoma is an extremely rare subtype of renal cell carcinoma most frequently characterized by a small ,  solitary ,  well - circumscribed ,  unencapsulated renal tumor composed of multiple small to medium - sized cysts with a white or gray ,  spongy  (  \ "bubble wrap - like \ " )  cut surface .
autosomal recessive myogenic arthrogryposis multiplex congenita is a rare inherited neuromuscular disease characterized by prenatal presentation  ( usually in the second trimester )  of reduced fetal movements and abnormal positioning resulting in joint abnormalities that may involve both lower and upper extremities and is usually symmetric ,  severe hypotonia at birth with bilateral club foot ,  motor development delay ,  mild facial weakness without opthalmoplegia ,  absent deep tendon reflexes ,  normal motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities ,  no cerebellar or pyramidal involvement ,  and progressive disease course with loss of ambulation after the first decade of life .
an instance of acute myeloid leukemia that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
acute myeloid leukemia with cebpa somatic mutations is a subtype of acute myeloid leukemia with recurrent genetic abnormalities ,  characterized by clonal proliferation of myeloid blasts harboring somatic mutations of the cebpa gene in the bone marrow ,  blood and ,  rarely ,  other tissues .
a papillary or follicular thyroid gland carcinoma with a genetic component that develops within the same family .
familial nonmedullary thyroid carcinoma  ( fnmtc )  is a rare non - syndromic form of thyroid cancer characterized by occurrence of thyroid carcinoma  ( tc )  as the primary feature in a familial setting .
autosomal recessive  ( ar )  mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to a complete deficiency describes a group of genetic variants of msmd comprised of msmd due to complete interferon gamma receptor 1  ( ifn - gammar1 )  deficiency ,  complete ifn - gammar2 deficiency ,  complete interleukin - 12 subunit beta  ( il12b )  deficiency ,  complete interleukin - 12 receptor subunit beta - 1  ( il - 12rb1 )  deficiency and complete isg15 deficiency .
autosomal recessive form of mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases due to a partial deficiency .
autosomal dominant  ( ad )  mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to a partial deficiency describes a group of variants of msmd due to dominantly inherited partial deficiencies in interferon gamma receptor 1  ( ifn - gammar1 )  ,  ifn - gammar2 ,  signal transducer and activator of transcription 1  ( stat1 )  or interferon regulator factor 8  ( irf8 )  .
mendelian susceptibily to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to complete interferon gamma receptor 2  ( ifn - gammar2 )  deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a complete deficiency in ifn - gammar2 ,  leading to an undetectable response to ifn - gamma ,  and consequently ,  to severe and often fatal infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  and other environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  .
autosomal recessive  ( ar )  mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to partial ifn - gammar1 deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a partial deficiency in ifn - gammar1 ,  leading to a residual response to ifn - gamma and ,  consequently ,  to recurrent ,  moderately severe infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  and other environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  .
autosomal recessive mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to partial ifngammar2 deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a partial deficiency in ifn - gammar2 ,  leading to a residual response to ifn - gamma and consequently to recurrent ,  moderately severe infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  and other environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  .
autosomal dominant  ( ad )  mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to partial interferon gamma receptor 2  ( ifn - gammar2 )  deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a partial deficiency in ifn - gammar2 ,  leading to impaired response to ifn - gamma and ,  consequently ,  to recurrent ,  moderately severe infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  and other environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  .
steroid dehydrogenase deficiency - dental anomalies syndrome is an autosomal recessive liver disease which was associated with numerical dental aberrations in a consanguineous arabi saudi family .
x - linked  ( xr )  mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  describes a rare group of immunodeficiencies due to specific mutations in the inhibitor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in b - cells ,  kinase gamma  ( ikbkg )  or the cytochrome b - 245 ,  beta polypeptide  ( cybb )  genes .
amyloidosis cutis dyschromia is a rare primary cutaneous amyloidosis characterized by macular or reticulate hyperpigmentation with symmetrically distributed guttate hypo -  and hyperpigmented lesions which progress gradually over the years to involve almost the entire body  ( with relative sparing of the face ,  hands ,  feet and neck )  .
primary lymphoma of the conjunctiva is an extremely rare clonal lymphoid proliferation of the ocular surface ,  with an indolent course .
glutathione synthetase deficiency is characterised by hemolytic anemia ,  associated with metabolic acidosis and 5 - oxoprolinuria in moderate forms ,  and with progressive neurological symptoms and recurrent bacterial infections in the most severe forms .
dehydrated hereditary stomatocytosis  ( dhs )  is a rare hemolytic anemia characterized by a decreased red cell osmotic fragility due to a defect in cation permeability ,  resulting in red cell dehydration and mild to moderate compensated hemolysis .
a rare ,  genetic ,  complex hereditary spastic paraplegia disorder characterized by adulthood - onset of slowly progressive ,  bilateral ,  mainly lower limb spasticity and distal weakness associated with lower limb pain ,  hyperreflexia ,  and reduced vibration sense .
white matter hypoplasia - corpus callosum agenesis - intellectual disability syndrome is a very rare neurological condition .
exstrophy - epispadias complex  ( eec )  represents a spectrum of genitourinary malformations ranging in severity from epispadias  ( e )  and classical bladder exstrophy  ( ceb )  to exstrophy of the cloaca  ( ec )  as the most severe form .
deafness - genital anomalies - metacarpal and metatarsal synostosis syndrome is characterised by sensorineural deafness ,  bilateral synostosis of the 4th and 5th metacarpals and metatarsals ,  genital anomalies  ( hypospadias in males )  ,  psychomotor delay and abnormal dermatoglyphics .
hearing loss - familial salivary gland insensitivity to aldosterone syndrome is characterised by bilateral moderate - to - severe sensorineural hearing loss and salivary gland insensitivity to aldosterone resulting in hyponatremia .
deafness - onychodystrophy syndrome is a group of rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect during embryogenesis disorders characterized by the association of sensorineural deafness and onychodystrophy  ( e .g .
multiple synostoses syndrome  ( mss )  is a rare developmental bone disorder characterized by proximal symphalangism of the fingers and / or toes often associated with fusion of carpal and tarsal ,  humeroradial ,  and cervical spine joints .
this syndrome is characterised by progressive calcification of the brain and spinal cord ,  growth retardation ,  psychomotor anomalies ,  deafness and anaemia .
t - cell immunodeficiency with epidermodysplasia verruciformis is a rare primary immunodeficiency characterized by increased susceptibility to infection by human papillomavirus ,  presenting in childhood with disseminated flat wart - like cutaneous lesions .
severe lateral tibial bowing with short stature is a rare ,  genetic ,  primary bent bone dysplasia characterized by significant ,  uni -  / bilateral ,  lateral tibial bowing localized to the distal two - thirds of the tibia ,  with respective cortical thickening and thinning of the inner and outer tibial curve ,  loss of normal trabecular bone ,  bilateral abnormalities of the tibial epiphyses and growth plates ,  as well as foot abnormalities ,  including abnormally high arches .
9p13 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial interstitial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 9 ,  characterized by mild to moderate developmental delay ,  hand tremors ,  myoclonic jerks ,  attention deficit - hyperactivity disorder and a social personality .
congenital achiasma is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic cranial nerve and nuclear aplasia malformation characterized by the congenital absence of the optic chiasm ,  resulting from the failure of the optic nerve fibers to cross over and decussate to the contralateral hemisphere ,  leading to decreased vision ,  strabismus and congenital nystagmus in infancy .
hereditary inclusion body myopathy type 4 is a rare non - dystrophic myopathy characterized by slowly progressive muscular weakness and atrophy initially involving proximal lower limbs and hip girdle and later on shoulder girdle ,  proximal upper limbs and axial muscles .
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and renal tubular disease due to mitochondrial dna mutation is a mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder characterized by hypertrophic and dilated cardiomyopathy ,  failure to thrive ,  myopathy with generalized hypotonia and increased creatine kinase ,  developmental delay and / or regression with cerebral atrophy on brain mri ,  renal manifestations including chronic renal failure ,  renal tubular acidosis and lactic acidosis .
aphonia - deafness - retinal dystrophy - bifid halluces - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  congenital aphonia ,  hearing loss ,  optic atrophy ,  retinal dystrophy ,  broad thumbs and duplicated halluces .
hyperinsulinism due to hnf1a deficiency is a form of diazoxide - sensitive diffuse hyperinsulinism  ( dhi )  ,  characterized by transient or persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia  ( hh )  in infancy that is responsive to diazoxide ,  evolving in to maturity - onset diabetes of the young subtype 1  ( mody - 1 )  later in life .
benign samaritan congenital myopathy is a rare ,  genetic ,  skeletal muscle disease characterized by severe neonatal hypotonia with respiratory insufficiency ,  delay in motor milestones ,  and dysmorphic features including bitemporal narrowing ,  epicanthal folds and hypertelorism .
x - linked cleft palate and ankyloglossia is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by the association of complete ,  partial or submucous cleft palate and ankyloglossia .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease type 2 due to kif5a mutation is a rare form of axonal peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by classical cmt2 signs and symptoms  ( progressive weakness and atrophy of distal limb muscles ,  mild sensory deficits of position ,  vibration and pain / temperature ,  pes cavus ,  and symmetrically absent or reduced muscle and sensory action potentials with relatively preserved nerve conduction velocities in neurophysiological studies )  as well as pyramidal tract involvement  ( spasticity ,  hyperreflexia )  .
an infection that is caused by the chikungunya virus ,  which is transmitted by mosquitoes ;  it is characterized by fever and severe arthralgia .
hendra virus infection is a rare viral infection disorder caused by the hendra virus characterized by onset of flu - like symptoms  ( fever ,  myalgia ,  headaches ,  lethargy )  approximately one week after having been in close contact with bodily fluids of infected horses .
invasive non - typhoidal salmonellosis  ( ints )  is a rare bacterial infectious disease caused by extraintestinal infection of non - typhoidal serotypes of salmonella enterica in patients with underlying hiv infection ,  malaria or malignancy .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  ,  piedmont type is a form of hchwa characterized by an age of onset between 50 - 70 years of age ,  recurrent lobar intracerebral hemorrhages and cognitive decline .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  ,  iowa type is a form of hchwa characterized by age of onset between 50 - 66 years of age ,  memory impairment ,  myoclonic jerks ,  expressive dysphagia ,  short - stepped gait ,  personality changes and lobar intracerebral hemorrhages .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  ,  italian type is a form of hchwa characterized by an age of onset of 50 years of age ,  dementia and lobar intracerebral hemorrhage .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  ,  flemish type is a form of hchwa characterized by an age of onset of 45 years of age ,  progressive alzheimer's disease - like dementia and lobar intracerebral hemorrhage in some patients .
hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis  ( hchwa )  ,  arctic type is a form of hchwa characterized by an age of onset of 54 - 61 years and progressive alzheimer's disease - like dementia ,  without intracerebral hemorrhages .
an instance of periodic fever syndrome that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
46 , xy ovotesticular disorder of sex development is a rare ,  genetic disorder of sex development characterized by either the coexistence of both male and female reproductive gonads or ,  more frequently ,  by the presence of one or both gonads containing a mixture of both testicular and ovarian tissue  ( ovotestes )  in an individual with a normal male 46 ,  xy karyotype .
congenital conditions of atypical sexual development associated with abnormal sex chromosome constitutions including monosomy ;  trisomy ;  and mosaicism .
autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome  ( alps )  is a rare ,  inherited disorder characterized by non - malignant lymphoproliferation ,  multilineage cytopenias ,  and a lifelong increased risk of hodgkin's and non - hodgkin's lymphoma .
humero - radio - ulnar synostosis is an extremely rare ,  genetic ,  congenital joint formation defect disorder characterized by uni -  or bilateral fusion of the humerus ,  radius and ulnar bones ,  leading to loss of elbow motion and ,  in most ,  functional arm incapacity .
familial lambdoid synostosis is a rare ,  genetic cranial malformation characterized by unilateral or bilateral synostosis of the lambdoid suture in multiple members of a single family .
congenital radioulnar synostosis is a rare bone disorder that may be isolated or associated with other disorders and that is characterized by failure of segmentation of the radius and ulna during embryological development ,  causing limited rotational movements of the forearm ,  which may lead to difficulties with some activities of daily living .
syringomyelia is characterised by cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  - filled cavities  ( syrinx )  inside the spinal cord ,  either as a result of a known cause  ( secondary syringomyelia ,  ss )  or ,  more rarely ,  due to an unknown cause  ( primary syringomyelia ,  ps )  .
multifocal atrial tachycardia is a rare supraventricular arrhythmia in neonates and young infants that is characterized by multiple p waves with varying p wave morphology and is usually asymptomatic .
his bundle tachycardia is a very rare congenital genetic tachyarrhythmia characterized by incessant tachycardia and high morbidity and mortality .
catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia  ( cpvt )  is a severe genetic arrhythmogenic disorder characterized by adrenergically induced ventricular tachycardia  ( vt )  manifesting as syncope and sudden death .
takayasu arteritis  ( tak )  is a rare inflammatory large - vessel vasculitis primarily affecting the aorta and its major branches ,  but also other large vessels ,  causing stenosis ,  occlusion ,  or aneurysm .
a rare but serious cerebrovascular disorder involving thrombosis of the cerebral venous system .
telecanthus - hypertelorism - strabismus - pes cavus syndrome is characterized by telecanthus ,  hypertelorism ,  strabismus ,  pes cavus and other variable anomalies .
any neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pla2g6 gene .
fatty acid hydroxylase - associated neurodegeneration  ( fahn )  is a very rare ,  autosomal recessive form of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia )  characterized by childhood - onset focal dystonia ,  progressive spastic paraplegia that progresses to tetra paresis ,  ataxia ,  dysarthria ,  intellectual decline ,  and oculomotor disturbances  ( optic atrophy )  ,  accompanied by iron deposition in the globus pallidus .
thrombocythemia with distal limb defects is a rare ,  genetic syndrome with limb reduction defects characterized by thrombocytosis ,  unilateral transverse limb defects  ( ranging from absence of phalanges to absence of hand or forearm )  and splenomegaly .
adult - onset chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial myopathy is a rare mitochondrial disease characterized by adult onset of progressive external ophthalmoplegia ,  exercise intolerance ,  muscle weakness ,  manifestations of spinocerebellar ataxia  ( e .g .
spastic paraplegia - paget disease of bone syndrome is an extremely rare ,  complex form of hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by a slowly progressive spastic paraplegia  ( with increased muscle tone ,  decreased strength in the anterior tibial muscles and hyperreflexia in the lower extremities with babinski sign )  presenting in adulthood ,  associated with paget disease of the bone .
adult - onset distal myopathy due to vcp mutation is a rare ,  genetic distal myopathy disorder characterized by middle age - onset of distal leg muscle weakness ,  atrophy in the anterior compartment resulting in foot drop ,  without proximal or scapular skeletal muscle weakness .
non - hypoproteinemic hypertrophic gastropathy is a rare gastroesophageal disease characterized by diffusely enlarged gastric folds ,  excessive mucus secretion ,  normal serum protein and gastric tgf - alpha levels .
juvenile overlap myositis is a rare juvenile idiopathic inflammatory myopathy characterized by the association of inflammatory myositis  ( manifesting with acral erythema ,  progressive weakness of the limbs ,  pain ,  general fatigue ,  moodiness or crankiness )  with clinical and / or laboratory features of other autoimmune diseases  ( e .g .
transient neonatal multiple acyl - coa dehydrogenase deficiency describes a very rare condition where a maternal riboflavin deficiency causes an infant to present with manifestations similar to those seen in multiple acyl - coa dehydrogenase  ( mad )  deficiency such as poor suck ,  metabolic acidosis and hypoglycemia ,  but that resolves completely with oral riboflavin .
classic endocrine tumor of the appendix is a type of endocrine tumor of the appendix ,  seen twice as frequently in females than in males ,  and usually presenting before the fifth decade of life .
goblet cell carcinoma  ( gcc )  is an aggressive type of endocrine tumor of the appendix presenting equally in males and females in the fifth decade of life and manifesting with a palpable mass and abdominal pain or acute appendicitis .
5 ug / dl )  is reported to lead to irreversible effects such as loss of cognition ,  shortening of attention span ,  alteration of behavior ,  dyslexia ,  attention deficit disorder ,  hypertension ,  renal impairment ,  immunotoxicity and toxicity to the reproductive organs .
mercury poisoning is caused mainly through ingestion or inhalation of any of the 3 forms of mercury ,  elemental ,  organic ,  and inorganic .
a rare skin disorder of unknown etiology affecting children .
the presence of four sets of chromosomes .
isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome is a chromosome abnormality that affects many different parts of the body .
tetrasomy 5p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with variable phenotype principally characterized by developmental delay ,  growth retardation / short stature ,  hypotonia ,  seizures ,  venriculomegaly ,  hand and foot anomalies  ( e .g .
congenital factor xiii deficiency is an inherited bleeding disorder due to reduced levels and activity of factor xiii  ( fxiii )  and characterized by hemorrhagic diathesis frequently associated with spontaneous abortions and defective wound healing .
tetrasomy 9p is a rare autosomal anomaly characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  psychomotor delay ,  mild to moderate intellectual disability ,  hypotonia ,  microcephaly ,  dysmorphic features  ( ocular hypertelorism ,  low - set ,  malformed ears ,  bulbous / beaked nose ,  microretrognathia ,  enophthalmos / micropthalmia ,  epicanthus ,  strabismus )  ,  cleft lip / palate ,  skeletal abnormalities  ( hypoplastic nails / distal phalanges ,  short stature ,  short neck ,  contractures )  ,  congenital heart defects ,  renal and urogenital malformations  ( renal hypoplasia ,  genital hypoplasia ,  cryptorchidism )  .
granulomatous slack skin  ( gss )  is a variant of mycosis fungoides  ( mf )  ,  a form of cutaneous t - cell lymphoma ,  and is characterized by the presence of circumscribed areas of pendulous lax skin .
a group of anomalies presented in infants as a result of in utero exposure  ( between 20 - 36 days after fertilization )  to thalidomide ,  a sedative used in treatment of a range of conditions ,  including morning sickness ,  leprosy and multiple myeloma  ( see these terms )  .
a condition that is characterized by elevated serum ige ,  dermatitis ,  and respiratory infections .
selective igm deficiency  ( sigmd )  is a rare immune disorder that has been reported in association with serious infections ,  such as bacteria in the blood  ( bacteremia ,  also known as septicemia )  .
thomas syndrome is characterised by renal anomalies ,  cardiac malformations and cleft lip or palate .
idiopathic hypersomnia is a sleep disorder classified in two forms: idiopathic hypersomnia with long sleep time and idiopathic hypersomnia without long sleep time .
hoyeraal - hreidarsson syndrome  ( hhs )  is a very rare x - linked recessive disorder considered to be a severe variant of dyskeratosis congenita characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  cerebellar hypoplasia ,  progressive combined immune deficiency and aplastic anemia .
heparin - induced thrombocytopenia  ( hit )  is a drug - induced ,  immune - mediated prothrombotic disorder associated with thrombocytopenia and venous and / or arterial thrombosis .
tibial aplasia - ectrodactyly syndrome is a rare condition characterized by congenital ectrodactylous limb malformations associated with tibial aplasia or hypoplasia .
jessner lymphocytic infiltration of the skin  ( jlis )  is a chronic benign cutaneous disease characterized by asymptomatic non - scaly erythematous papules or plaques on the face and neck .
hypoplastic tibia - polydactyly syndrome is a very rare congenital malformation syndrome characterized by bilateral hypoplasia of the tibia with polydactyly of the feet and hands .
trichothiodystrophy or ttd is a heterogeneous group disorders characterized by short ,  brittle hair with low - sulphur content  ( due to an abnormal synthesis of the sulphur containing keratins )  .
an autosomal dominant heart condition that causes disruptions in the heart's normal rhythm .
pediatric hepatocellular carcinoma  ( pediatric hcc )  is a rare ,  aggressive ,  malignant hepatic tumor that develops mainly in children over 10 years of age .
bullous lichen planus is a variant of rare lichen planus characterized by the development of vesico - bullous lesions .
tracheal agenesis  ( ta )  is a rare congenital malformation in which the trachea may be completely absent  ( agenesis )  ,  or partially in place but underdeveloped  ( atresia )  .
an acute bacterial disease caused by neisseria meningitides that presents usually ,  but not always ,  with a rash  ( non blanching petechial or purpuric rash )  ,  progressively developing signs of meningitis  ( fever ,  vomiting ,  headache ,  photophobia ,  and neck stiffness )  and later leading to confusion ,  delirium and drowsiness .
congenital deficiencies of fibrinogen are coagulation disorders characterized by bleeding symptoms ranging from mild to severe resulting from reduced quantity and / or quality of circulating fibrinogen .
trichodermodysplasia - dental alterations syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by sparse ,  thin ,  brittle scalp hair ,  as well as sparse eyebrows ,  eyelashes ,  axillary and pubic hair ,  delayed eruption of deciduous teeth and hypodontia of both dentitions .
nodular non - suppurative panniculitis ,  known as weber - christian disease  ( wcd )  ,  is a rare skin disorder characterized by recurring inflammation in the subcutaneous layer of fat .
trigonocephaly - broad thumbs syndrome is characterized by neonatal trigonocephaly and multiple anomalies including craniosynostosis ,  shallow orbits ,  unusual nose ,  deviation of the terminal phalanges of fingers 1 ,  2 ,  and 5 ,  and broad toes with duplication of the terminal phalanx .
isolated trigonocephaly is a nonsyndromic form of craniosynostosis characterized by the premature fusion of the metopic suture .
trisomy x is a sex chromosome anomaly with a variable phenotype caused by the presence of an extra x chromosome in females  ( 47 , xxx instead of 46 , xx )  .
triploidy is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra set of chromosomes present in each cell .
trisomy 13 is a chromosomal anomaly caused by the presence of an extra chromosome 13 and is characterized by brain malformations  ( holoprosencephaly )  ,  facial dysmorphism ,  ocular anomalies ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  visceral malformations  ( cardiopathy )  and severe psychomotor retardation .
distal trisomy 17q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with variable phenotype principally characterized by intellectual disability ,  developmental delay ,  short stature ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
familial multiple fibrofolliculoma is a genodermatosis characterised by the presence of multiple hamartomas of the hair follicle .
trisomy 18 is a chromosomal abnormality associated with the presence of an extra chromosome 18 and characterized by growth delay ,  dolichocephaly ,  a characteristic facies ,  limb anomalies and visceral malformations .
a rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by the failure of the embryologic structure truncus arteriosus to divide into the aorta and pulmonary trunk .
a congenital defect characterized by failure of the neural tube to close completely ;  this results in the presence of openings in the brain or spinal cord .
a chronic ,  recurrent infection caused by the bacterium mycobacterium tuberculosis .
tularemia is an infection caused by the bacterium francisella tularensis .
a malignant neoplasm arising from muscle tissue ,  adipose tissue ,  blood vessels ,  fibrous tissue ,  or other supportive tissues excluding the bones .
an epithelial neoplasm that affects the thymus gland .
rare germ cell tumor .
hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome  ( hfrs )  is a rodent - borne potentially severe hemorrhagic disease caused by old world hantaviruses characterized by high fever ,  malaise ,  headache ,  myalgia ,  arthralgia ,  backache ,  abdominal pain ,  oliguria / renal failure and systemic hemorrhagic manifestations .
aorto - ventricular tunnel is a congenital ,  extracardiac channel which connects the ascending aorta above the sinotubular junction to the cavity of the left ,  or  ( less commonly )  right ventricle .
transient tyrosinemia of the newborn is a benign disorder of tyrosine metabolism detected upon newborn screening and often observed in premature infants .
uhl anomaly is characterized by an almost complete absence of the myocardium in the right ventricle resulting in a thin walled nonfunctional right ventricle manifesting with cardiac arrhythmias and right ventricular failure .
umbilical cord ulceration - intestinal atresia syndrome is characterised by congenital intestinal atresia ,  umbilical cord ulceration and severe intrauterine haemorrhage .
ulerythema ophryogenesis is characterised by inflammatory keratotic papules occurring on the face ,  which may be followed by scars ,  atrophy and alopecia .
viral hemorrhagic fever is a group of recently discovered contagious viral infections characterized by severe ,  multiple ,  and often fatal hemorrhages .
familial mediterranean fever  ( fmf )  is an autoinflammatory disorder characterized by recurrent short episodes of fever and serositis resulting in pain in the abdomen ,  chest ,  joints and muscles .
double outlet right ventricle  ( dorv )  is a rare cono - truncal anomaly in which both the aorta and pulmonary artery originate ,  either entirely or predominantly ,  from the morphologic right ventricle .
double - outlet left ventricle  ( dolv )  is an extremely rare congenital cardiac malformation in which both the aorta and the pulmonary artery arise ,  either exclusively or predominantly ,  from the morphologic left ventricle .
microcephaly - brachydactyly - kyphoscoliosis syndrome is characterized by profound intellectual deficit in association with microcephaly ,  short stature ,  brachydactyly type d ,  a flattened occiput ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  low - set large ears ,  a broad prominent nose and kyphoscoliosis .
vogt - koyanagi - harada disease is a bilateral ,  chronic ,  diffuse granulomatous panuveitis typically characterized by serous retinal detachment and frequently associated with neurological  ( meningitis )  ,  auditory ,  and dermatological alterations .
arbovirosis are polymorphic diseases caused by arboviruses and are classically characterized by encephalitis and hemorrhage ,  however ,  most commonly only aspecific fever is observed .
waardenburg syndrome  ( ws )  is a disorder characterized by varying degrees of deafness and minor defects in structures arising from neural crest ,  including pigmentation anomalies of eyes ,  hair ,  and skin .
weaver - williams syndrome is a multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by moderate - to - severe intellectual disability ,  decreased muscle mass ,  microcephaly ,  facial dysmorphism  ( prominent ears ,  midfacial hypoplasia ,  small mouth and cleft palate )  ,  clinodactyly of the fingers ,  delayed osseous maturation and generalized bone hypoplasia .
weill - marchesani syndrome  ( wms )  is a rare condition characterized by short stature ,  brachydactyly ,  joint stiffness ,  and characteristic eye abnormalities including microspherophakia ,  ectopia of the lens ,  severe myopia ,  and glaucoma .
west syndrome  ( or infantile spasms )  is characterised by the association of clusters of axial spasms ,  psychomotor retardation and an hypsarrhythmic interictal eeg pattern .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 1e  ( lgmd1e )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by an adult onset of progressive cardiac conduction defects that begin with cardiac dysrhythmia .
a hereditary disorder that leads to a selective defect in renal or intestinal magnesium absorption ,  resulting in a low serum magnesium concentration .
familial primary hypomagnesemia with normocalciuria and normocalcemia  ( fphnn )  is a form of familial primary hypomagnesemia  ( fph )  ,  characterized by low serum magnesium  ( mg )  values but inappropriate normal urinary mg values  ( i .e .
the term corneal dystrophy embraces a heterogeneous group of bilateral genetically determined non - inflammatory corneal diseases that are usually restricted to the cornea .
folliculitis decalvans is a rare chronic inflammatory cicatricial alopecia of the scalp occurring in middle - aged adults and characterized by the development of alopecic patches with slowly centrifugal spread predominantly in the vertex and occipital area of the scalp ,  associated with perifollicular erythema ,  follicular pustules and hemorrhagic crusts .
wolfram syndrome  ( ws )  also known as didmoad ,  is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by type i diabetes mellitus  ( dm )  ,  diabetes insipidus  ( di )  ,  sensorineural deafness  ( d )  ,  bilateral optical atrophy  ( oa )  and neurological signs .
hereditary xanthinuria is a purine metabolism disorder due to inherited deficiency of the xanthine dehydrogenase / oxidase enzyme and is characterized by very low  ( or undetectable )  concentrations of uric acid in blood and urine and very high concentration of xanthine in urine ,  leading to urolithiasis .
fulminant viral hepatitis is a rapid and severe impairment of liver functions  ( acute liver failure )  with hepatic encephalopathy developing less than 8 weeks after the onset of jaundice ,  secondary to viral hepatitis mainly due to hbv ,  but also to hav .
isolated scaphocephaly is a form of nonsyndromic craniosynostosis characterized by premature fusion of the sagittal suture .
isolated synostotic plagiocephaly  ( sp )  is a form of nonsyndromic craniosynostosis characterized by premature fusion of one coronal suture leading to skull deformity and facial asymmetry .
isolated brachycephaly is a relatively frequent nonsyndromic craniosynostosis consisting of premature fusion of both coronal sutures leading to skull deformity with a broad flat forehead and palpable coronal ridges .
a syndrome characterized by lesions occurring on the face ,  scalp ,  or neck which consist of congenital hypoplastic malformations of cutaneous structures and which over time undergo verrucous hyperplasia .
galactosemia is a group of rare genetic metabolic disorders characterized by impaired galactose metabolism resulting in a range of variable manifestations encompassing a severe ,  life - threatening disease  ( classic galactosemia )  ,  a rare mild form  ( galactokinase deficiency )  causing cataract ,  and a very rare form with variable severity  ( galactose epimerase deficiency )  resembling classic galactosemia in the severe form .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of mitochondrial genome maintenance .
intellectual disability - obesity - brain malformations - facial dysmorphism syndrome is a rare ,  syndromic intellectual disability primarily characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  true - to - relative microcephaly and brain abnormalities including a thin corpus callosum ,  cerebellar hypoplasia ,  cerebral white matter hypoplasia and multi - focal hyperintensity of cerebral white matter on mri .
oncogenic osteomalacia is characterized by the development of a tumor that causes the bones to be weakened .
focal epilepsy - intellectual disability - cerebro - cerebellar malformation is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by early infantile - onset of seizures ,  borderline to moderate intellectual disability ,  cerebellar features including dysarthria and ataxia and cerebellar atrophy and cortical thickening observed on mri imaging .
progressive myoclonic epilepsy with dystonia is a rare ,  genetic epilepsy syndrome characterized by neonatal or early infantile onset of severe ,  progressive ,  typically frequent and prolonged myoclonic seizures that are refractory to treatment ,  associated with localized and / or generalized paroxysmal dystonia  ( which later becomes persistent )  .
16q24 .1 microdeletion syndrome is a partial autosomal monosomy characterized clinically by lethal pulmonary disease that presents as severe respiratory distress and refractory pulmonary hypertension within a few hours after birth and typically results in death from respiratory failure within the first months of life .
phalangeal microgeodic syndrome is a rare primary osteolysis characterized by multiple small osteolytic areas and sclerosis in the phalanges of one or both hands associated with swelling and redness of the phalanges .
autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia with late - onset spasticity is a rare ,  genetic neurodegenerative disease characterized by childhood or adolescent - onset of cerebellar ataxia with dysarthria which slowly progresses and associates pyramidal signs ,  including lower limb spasticity ,  brisk reflexes ,  and babinski and hoffman signs .
brain dopamine - serotonin vesicular transport disease is a newly discovered infantile - onset neurometabolic disease characterized by dystonia ,  parkinsonism ,  nonambulation ,  autonomic dysfunction ,  developmental delay and mood disturbances .
congenital muscular alpha - dystroglycanopathy with brain and eye anomalies  ( mddga )  is a cobblestone lissencephaly characterized by and considered to be pathognomonic of a continuum of recessive autosomal disorders with brain ,  ocular and muscular involvement .
attenuated chdiak - higashi syndrome  ( chs )  is a very rare and atypical form of chs ,  a genetic disorder characterized by partial oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca )  ,  severe immunodeficiency ,  mild bleeding ,  neurological dysfunction and lymphoproliferative disorder .
type 1 oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca1 )  describes a group of tyrosine related ocas that includes oca1a ,  oca1b ,  type 1 minimal pigment oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca1 - mp )  and type 1 temperature sensitive oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca1 - ts )  .
type 1 minimal pigment oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca1 - mp )  is an extremely rare form of oca1 with minimal pigment present ,  characterized by blond hair ,  variable iris transillumination ,  visual acuity ranging from 20 / 80 - 20 / 200 and white skin ,  with or without skin nevi .
type 1 temperature sensitive oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca1 - ts )  is an extremely rare form of oca1 characterized by the production of temperature sensitive tyrosinase proteins leading to dark hair on the legs ,  arms and chest  ( cooler body areas )  and white hair on the scalp ,  axilla and pubic area  ( warmer body areas )  .
infantile pyruvate carboxylase  ( pc )  deficiency  ( type a )  is a rare ,  severe form of pc deficiency characterized by infantile - onset ,  mild to moderate lactic acidemia ,  and a generally severe course .
severe neonatal pyruvate carboxylase  ( pc )  deficiency  ( type b )  is a rare ,  extremely severe form of pc deficiency characterized by severe ,  early - onset metabolic acidosis ,  and a generally fatal outcome in early infancy .
benign pyruvate carboxylase  ( pc )  deficiency  ( type c )  is a rare ,  very mild form of pc deficiency characterized by episodic metabolic acidosis and normal or mildly delayed neurological development .
idiopathic macular telangiectasia type 1 is a rare ,  acquired ,  eye disease characterized by unilateral  ( rarely bilateral )  abnormally dilated and tortuous capillaries around the fovea ,  associated with multiple arteriolar and venular aneurysms ,  lipid depositions ,  and intra - retinal cystoid degeneration .
idiopathic macular telangiectasia type 3 is a rare ,  acquired ,  eye disease characterized by progressive visual loss ,  due to bilateral juxtafoveolar capillary occlusions ,  capillary telangiectasia ,  and minimal exudation .
vasoproliferative tumor of the retina is a rare ,  benign ,  retinal vascular disease characterized by solitary or multiple ,  unilateral or bilateral ,  intra - retinal tumor ( s )  ,  usually located in the peripheral infero - temporal quadrant ,  and often associated with sub -  and intraretinal exudates ,  epiretinal membranes ,  exudative retinal detachment and cystoid macular edema ,  as well as ,  occasionally ,  retinal and vitreous hemorrhage .
gm1 gangliosidosis is a rare lysosomal storage disorder characterized biochemically by deficient beta - galactosidase activity and clinically by a wide range of variable neurovisceral ,  ophthalmological and dysmorphic features .
gaucher disease  ( gd )  is a lysosomal storage disorder encompassing three main forms  ( types 1 ,  2 and 3 )  ,  a fetal form and a variant with cardiac involvement  ( gaucher disease  -  ophthalmoplegia  -  cardiovascular calcification or gaucher - like disease )  .
a genetically heterogeneous condition ,  typically inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion ,  characterized by coenzyme q10 deficiency .
serpiginous choroiditis is a rare inflammatory eye condition that typicallydevelops betweenage 30 and 70 years .
erdheim - chester disease  ( ecd )  ,  a non - langerhans form of histiocytosis ,  is a multisystemic disease characterized by various manifestations such as skeletal involvement with bone pain ,  exophthalmos ,  diabetes insipidus ,  renal impairment and central nervous system  ( cns )  and / or cardiovascular involvement .
madelung disease ,  or deformity  ( md )  is a predominantly bilateral wrist anomaly characterized by shortened and bowed radii and long ulnae leading to dorsal dislocation of the distal ulna and limited mobility of the wrist and elbow .
primary lateral sclerosis  ( pls )  is an idiopathic non - familial motor neuron disease characterized by slowly progressive upper motor neuron dysfunction leading to spasticity ,  mild weakness in voluntary muscle movement ,  hyperreflexia ,  and loss of motor speech production .
the mitochondrial dna  ( mtdna )  depletion syndrome  ( mds )  is a clinically heterogeneous group of mitochondrial disorders characterized by a reduction of the mtdna copy number in affected tissues without mutations or rearrangements in the mtdna .
an inherited malignant tumor that originates in the nuclear layer of the retina .
serine - deficiency syndrome is a very rare infantile - onset potentially treatable neurometabolic disorder characterized clinically by microcephaly ,  neurodevelopmental disorders and seizures .
an autosomal recessive cutis laxa type ii classic type that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in the atp6v0a2 gene on chromosome 12q24 .
arterial thoracic outlet syndrome  ( atos )  is a form of thoracic outlet syndrome  ( tos )  that presents as unilateral upper extremity ischemia .
venous thoracic outlet syndrome  ( vtos )  is a form of thoracic outlet syndrome  ( tos )  that manifests as unilateral  ( rarely bilateral )  arm pain and cyanosis .
oral submucous fibrosis  ( osmf )  is a chronic ,  progressive disease that alters the fibroelasticity of the oral submucosa ,  prevalent in india and southeast asia but rare elsewhere ,  and characterized by burning and pain in the oral cavity ,  loss of gustatory sensation ,  the presence of blanched fibrous bands and stiffening of the oral mucosa and oro - pharynx  ( leading to trismus and a progressive reduction in mouth opening )  and an increased risk of developing oral squamous cell cancer  ( 3 - 19% )  .
primary essential cutis verticis gyrata is a rare ,  progressive dermis disorder characterized by thickening of the scalp resulting in redundancy of the skin which gives rise to folds and grooves that give the scalp a cerebriform appearance .
morning glory syndrome  ( mgs )  is an optic neuropathy characterized by a congenital funnel shaped excavation of the posterior fundus that incorporates the optic disc malformation  ( resembling the morning glory flower )  mgs is usually unilateral and may result in a decrease in best - corrected visual acuity  ( bcva )  .
nephrotic syndrome for which no cause has been identified .
malignant germ cell tumor of ovary is a rare ovarian cancer arising from germ cells in the ovary ,  frequently unilateral at diagnosis which characteristically presents during adolescence with pelvic mass ,  fever ,  vaginal bleeding and acute abdomen .
malignant sex cord stromal tumor  ( scst )  of ovary is a rare ovarian cancer arising from granulosa ,  theca ,  sertoli and leydig cells or stromal fibroblasts ,  occurring at any age and presenting with abdominal or pelvic mass ,  and characterized  ( with the exception of fibroma )  by the production of sex steroids resulting in manifestations of hormone excess ,  with a relatively favorable prognosis .
acute opioid poisoning is a rare intoxication with opioids ,  a large group of alkaloid analgesics ,  mainly characterized by miosis  ( pinpoint pupil )  ,  respiratory depression  ( bradypnea / apnea )  and central nervous system depression  ( sedation or coma )  .
hereditary glaucoma is a clinically diverse group of rare eye disorders with genetic predisposition characterized by elevated intraocular pressure  ( iop )  and glaucomatous changes of the optic nerve head ,  leading to field defects ,  visual loss and blindness .
combined deficiency of factor v and factor viii is an inherited bleeding disorder due to the reduction in activity and antigen levels of both factor v  ( fv )  and factor viii  ( fviii )  and characterized by mild - to - moderate bleeding symptoms .
the most malignant astrocytic tumor  ( who grade iv )  .
dilatation of the intestinal lymphatic system usually caused by an obstruction in the intestinal wall .
a blistering skin disorder caused by exfoliative toxins produced by staphylococcus aureus infection .
bullous impetigo is a contagious superficial infection occurring in intact skin .
staphylococcal necrotizing pneumonia is a rare ,  bacterial ,  pulmonary infectious disease ,  caused by a panton - valentine leukocidin - producing staphylococcus aureus strain ,  characterized by severe respiratory failure ,  extensive ,  rapidly progressing pneumonia and hemorrhagic lung necrosis .
gastric linitis plastica  ( gastric lp )  is a malignant ,  diffuse ,  infiltrative gastric adenocarcinoma .
aberrant chromosomes with no ends ,  i .e . ,  circular .
autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia - pyramidal signs - nystagmus - oculomotor apraxia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  slowly progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by delayed psychomotor development beginning in infancy ,  mild to profound intellectual disability ,  gait and stance ataxia ,  pyramidal signs  ( hyperreflexia ,  extensor plantar responses )  ,  dysarthria ,  and ocular abnormalities  ( e .g .
acute encephalopathy with biphasic seizures and late reduced diffusion  ( aesd )  is a rare childhood - onset epilepsy syndrome associated with infection and characterized by a biphasic clinical course .
new - onset refractory status epilepticus is an acute encephalopathy with inflammation - mediated status epilepticus characterized by an acute refractory status epilepticus ,  typically of the tonic - clonic type ,  following prodromal symptoms of confusion ,  fever ,  fatigue ,  headache ,  symptoms of gastrointestinal or upper respiratory tract infection ,  behavioral changes or hallucinations .
a germ cell tumor arising in an anatomic site other than the testis or ovary  ( e .g . ,  central nervous system ,  lung ,  mediastinum ,  and retroperitoneum )  .
a rare ,  genetic ,  premature aging syndrome characterized by adulthood - onset cutaneous manifestations that result in a prematurely aged appearance  ( i .e .
20q11 .2 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  due to partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 20 ,  characterized by psychomotor and developmental delay ,  moderate intellectual disability ,  metopic ridging / trigonocephaly ,  short hands and / or feet and distinctive facial features  ( epicanthus ,  hypoplastic supraorbital ridges ,  horizontal / downslanting palpebral fissures ,  small nose with depressed nasal bridge and anteverted nostrils ,  prominent cheeks ,  retrognathia and small ,  thick ears )  .
1qter deletion syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by an intellectual deficiency ,  progressive microcephaly ,  seizures ,  growth delay ,  distinct facial dysmorphic features and various midline defects including cardiac ,  corpus callosum ,  gastro - oesophalgeal and urogenital anomalies .
2p13 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a rare partial autosomal monosomy characterized by global development delay ,  intellectual disability ,  behavioral abnormalities  ( hyperactivity ,  attention deficit and autistic behaviors )  ,  brachycephaly and variable facial dysmorphism .
alexander disease type i  ( axd type i )  is an astrogliopathy and the most severe and common form of alexander disease  ( axd )  ,  presenting before the age of 4 and characterized by seizures ,  megalencephaly and developmental delay with progressive deterioration .
alexander disease type ii  ( axd type ii )  is an astrogliopathy and a form of alexander disease  ( axd )  characterized by ataxia ,  bulbar symptoms ,  spastic paraparesis ,  palatal myoclonus ,  and autonomic symptoms .
balint syndrome is a rare neurologic disease characterized by the triad of optic ataxia ,  ocular apraxia and simultanagnosia due to posterior parietal lobe lesions .
an instance of cervical artery dissection that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
hereditary sensory neuropathy type i  ( hsn i )  is a slowly progressive neurological disorder characterised by prominent predominantly distal sensory loss ,  autonomic disturbances ,  autosomal dominant inheritance ,  and juvenile or adulthood disease onset .
generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus  ( gefs +  )  is a familial epilepsy syndrome in which family members display a seizure disorder from the gefs +  spectrum which ranges from simple febrile seizures  ( fs )  to the more severe phenotype of myoclonic - astatic epilepsy  ( mae )  or dravet syndrome  ( ds )  .
a paraneoplastic syndrome that involves the nervous system .
immune hydrops fetalis  ( ihf )  ,  a form of hf ,  describes the excessive accumulation of fetal fluid within the fetal extravascular compartments and body cavities due to maternal rhesus  ( rh )  incompatibility .
systemic epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  - positive t - cell lymphoproliferative disease of childhood is a rare and very aggressive neoplastic disease emerging after a primary acute or chronic active ebv infection .
a rare ,  ebv - positive cutaneous t - cell lymphoproliferative disorder ,  composed of cd8 positive cytotoxic t - lymphocytes .
anaplastic lymphoma kinase  ( alk )  - positive diffuse large b - cell lymphoma is a very rare variant of diffuse large b - cell lymphoma  ( dlbcl )  mainly affecting middle - aged immunocompetent men and characterized by a consistent primary involvement of lymph nodes  ( mainly in the cervical and mediastinum lymph nodes )  and with infrequent extra nodal involvement of the bone marrow and other extra - nodal sites  ( head and neck region ,  liver ,  spleen ,  and gastrointestinal tract )  .
infantile epileptic - dyskinetic encephalopathy is a monogenic disease with epilepsy characterized by developmental delay and infantile spasms in the first months of life ,  followed by chorea and generalized dystonia and progressing to quadriplegic dyskinesia ,  recurrent status dystonicus ,  intractable focal epilepsy and severe intellectual disability .
hypocomplementemic urticarial vasculitis  ( huv )  is an immune complex - mediated small vessel vasculitis characterized by urticaria and hypocomplementemia  ( low c1q with or without low c3 and c4 )  ,  and usually associated with circulating anti - c1q autoantibodies .
bipartite talus is a rare ,  genetic bone disorder characterized by the presence of two non - fused talar bone fragments ,  with the posterior fragment located at the level of the posterior talar process .
stevens - johnson syndrome is a limited form of toxic epidermal necrolysis characterized by destruction and detachment of the skin epithelium and mucous membranes involving less than 10% of the body surface area .
otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder is a primary bone dysplasia and encompasses a group of congenital anomalies that are characterized by skeletal dysplasia of varying clinical severity and an x linked dominant pattern of inheritance .
a disorder of the development of bone in which ossification is affected .
an autoimmune form of hypoparathyroidism .
2p21 microdeletion syndrome without cystinuria is a rare partial autosomal monosomy characterized by weak fetal movements ,  severe infantile hypotonia and feeding difficulties that spontaneously improve with time ,  urogenital abnormalities  ( hypospadias or hypoplastic labia majora )  ,  global development delay ,  mild intellectual disability and facial dysmorphism  ( dolichocephaly ,  frontal bossing ,  bilateral ptosis ,  midface retrusion ,  open mouth with tented upper lip vermilion )  .
intellectual disability - seizures - macrocephaly - obesity syndrome is a rare syndromic obesity due to complex chromosomal rearrangement characterized by development delay and intellectual disability ,  childhood - onset obesity ,  seizures ,  poor coordination and broad - based gait ,  macrocephaly and mild dysmorphic features  ( such as narrow palpebral fissures ,  malar hypoplasia and thin upper lips )  ,  eczema ,  ocular abnormalities and a social personality .
glycogen storage disease  ( gsd )  due to phosphorylase kinase deficiency is a group of inborn errors of glycogen metabolism that is clinically and genetically heterogeneous .
a distinct form of acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  in which this chromosomal anomaly is found de novo or in therapy - related aml cases ,  and is characterized by frequent extramedullary involvement  ( mainly hepatomegaly ,  splenomegaly ,  lymphadenopathies ,  cutaneous infiltration ,  but also gum ,  bone ,  central nervous system ,  testicles involvement )  ,  severe coagulation disorder  ( disseminated intravascular coagulopathy or primary fibrinolysis )  and poor prognosis .
an instance of syringomyelia that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
nevada  ( nevus epidermicus verrucosus with angiodysplasia and aneurysms )  syndrome is a rare ,  life - threatening ,  cutaneous disease characterized by a keratinocytic epidermal nevus presenting thick ,  hystrix - like ,  white or brownish hyperkeratosis associated with multiple extracutaneous vascular malformations ,  including angiodysplasia that involves large - vessel arteriovenous shunts that may be fatal during the neonatal period .
a drug - related embryofetopathy that can occur when an embryo / fetus is exposed to carbamazepine and that is characterized by facial dysmorphism ,  with some similarities to that seen in fetal valproate syndrome  ( see this term )  ,  such as epicanthal folds ,  upward slanting palpebral fissures ,  short nose ,  micrognathia and malar hypoplasia ,  as well as nail dysplasia and major anomalies including cleft lip / palate ,  neural tube defects and cardiac anomalies .
a form of oculocutaneous albinism characterized by light hair at birth that darkens with age ,  white skin ,  transparent irides ,  photophobia ,  nystagmus ,  foveal hypoplasia and reduced visual acuity .
ataxia - telangiectasia variant is a rare ,  genetic ,  persistent combined dystonia characterized by clinical signs similar to ataxia - telangiectasia but with a later  ( usually adulthood )  onset and slower progression .
medich giant platelet syndrome  ( mgps )  is a platelet granule disorder characterized by thrombocytopenia with giant platelets resulting in easy bleeding .
white platelet syndrome  ( wps )  is is a platelet granule disorder characterized by thrombocytopenia ,  increased mean platelet volumes ,  decreased platelet responsiveness to aggregating agents ,  and significant defects in platelet ultrastructural morphology leading to prolonged bleeding times and bleeding .
a rare malignant neoplasm of the soft tissues .
a small round cell tumor with neural differentiation arising from the soft tissues or bone .
a small cell carcinoma that involves the ovary .
gm3 synthase deficiency is characterized by recurrent seizures  ( epilepsy )  and problems with brain development .
an autosomal recessive disease characterized by severe intellectual disability ,  epilepsy ,  scoliosis ,  choreoathetosis ,  dysmorphic facial features and altered dermal pigmentation .
muscle - eye - brain  ( meb )  disease with bilateral multicystic leucodystrophy is a form of congenital muscular alpha - dystroglycanopathy with brain and eye anomaly characterized by severe muscle - eye - brain disease - like phenotype associated with macrocephaly and extended bilateral multicystic white matter disease ,  overlapping with the cerebral findings in patients with megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts .
congenital muscular dystrophy with hyperlaxity is a rare ,  genetic neuromuscular disease characterized by congenital hypotonia ,  generalized ,  slowly progressive muscular weakness ,  and proximal joint contractures with distal joint hypermobility and hyperlaxity .
hypotonia - speech impairment - severe cognitive delay syndrome is a rare ,  genetic neurodegenerative disorder characterized by severe ,  persistent hypotonia  ( presenting at birth or in early infancy )  ,  severe global developmental delay  ( with poor or absent speech ,  difficulty or inability to roll ,  sit or walk )  ,  profound intellectual disability ,  and failure to thrive .
multicentric osteolysis - nodulosis - arthropathy  ( mona )  spectrum is a rare genetic chronic skeletal disorder characterized by peripheral osteolysis  ( especially carpal and tarsal bones )  ,  interphalangeal joint erosions ,  subcutaneous fibrocollagenous nodules ,  facial dysmorphism ,  and a wide range of associated manifestations .
interstitial cystitis ,  also known as bladder pain syndrome  ( ic / bps )  ,  is a rare chronic debilitating urogenital disease characterized by urinary frequency ,  urgency ,  and pelvic pain .
acquired progressive kinking of the hair  ( apkh )  is a rare hair disorder characterized by the appearance of lustreless ,  curly ,  frizzy ,  and coarse hair generally during adolescence predominantly in the frontal ,  temporal ,  and vertex regions of the scalp .
schnitzler syndrome is a rare ,  underdiagnosed disorder in adults characterized by recurrent febrile rash ,  bone and / or joint pain ,  enlarged lymph nodes ,  fatigue ,  a monoclonal igm component ,  leukocytosis and systemic inflammatory response .
chronic granulomatous disease  ( cgd )  is a rare primary immunodeficiency ,  mainly affecting phagocytes ,  which is characterized by an increased susceptibility to severe and recurrent bacterial and fungal infections ,  along with the development of granulomas .
griscelli syndrome  ( gs )  is characterised by silvery gray sheen of the hair and hypopigmentation of the skin which can be associated to neurological impairment  ( type 1 )  ,  immunodeficiency  ( type 2 )  or be isolated  ( type 3 )  .
neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation  ( nbia ,  formerly hallervorden - spatz syndrome )  encompasses a group of rare neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive extrapyramidal dysfunction  ( dystonia ,  rigidity ,  choreoathetosis )  ,  iron accumulation in the brain and the presence of axonal spheroids ,  usually limited to the central nervous system .
a multicystic ,  tumor - like hamartomatous lesion that arises from the liver during fetal development .
hirschsprung disease  ( hscr )  is a congenital intestinal motility disorder that is characterized by signs of intestinal obstruction due to the presence of an aganglionic segment of variable extent in the terminal part of the colon .
langerhans cell histiocytosis  ( lch )  is a systemic disease associated with the proliferation and accumulation  ( usually in granulomas )  of langerhans cells in various tissues .
acromelanosis is a congenital hyperpigmentation of the skin usually located on the acral areas of the fingers and toes .
a disease caused by the fungus histoplasma capsulatum .
infantile - onset mesial temporal lobe epilepsy with severe cognitive regression is a rare monogenic disease with infantile - onset pharmacoresistant focal seizures of mesial temporal lobe onset manifesting with unresponsiveness ,  hypertonia and automatisms and cognitive regression soon after seizure onset leading to severe intellectual disability with behavioral abnormalities .
atypical juvenile parkinsonism  ( ajp )  is a complex form of young - onset parkinson disease  ( yopd )  that manifests with pyramidal signs ,  eye movement abnormalities ,  psychiatric manifestations  ( depression ,  anxiety ,  drug - induced psychosis ,  and impulse control disorders )  ,  intellectual disability ,  and other neurological symptoms  ( such as ataxia and epilepsy )  along with classical parkinsonian symptoms .
hsd10 disease ,  infantile type is a clinical subtype of hsd10 disease ,  a rare neurometabolic disorder .
hsd10 disease ,  neonatal type is the most severe form of hsd10 disease ,  a rare neurometabolic disorder .
acquired myasthenia gravis  ( mg )  is an autoimmune disorder of the neuromuscular junction characterized by fatigable muscle weakness with frequent ocular signs and / or generalized muscle weakness ,  and occasionally associated with thymoma .
juvenile myasthenia gravis  ( mg )  is a rare form of mg ,  an autoimmune disorder of the neuromuscular junction resulting in ocular manifestations or generalized weakness ,  with onset before 18 years of age .
transient neonatal myasthenia gravis  ( mg )  is a rare form of mg occurring in neonates born to mothers who have the disorder or specific circulating autoantibodies .
a rare benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from cells that resemble the modified smooth muscle cells of the glomus body .
mucinous adenocarcinoma of the appendix is a very rare ,  slow growing ,  well - differentiated epithelial neoplasm of the appendix characterized by abundant mucin production .
chronic hiccup is a rare movement disorder characterized by involuntary spasmodic contractions of the inspiratory muscles synchronized with larynx closure lasting for more than 48 hours .
 ( 20p13 )  leading to deposition of prion protein amyloid .
3q27 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 3 ,  characterized by mild to severe intellectual disability ,  neuropsychiatric disorders of the psychotic and dysthymic spectrum ,  mild distinctive facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
joubert syndrome with jeune asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy  ( jatd )  is an extremely rare genetic bone disorder characterized by the classic features of joubert syndrome  ( i .e .
 ( 9q34 .3 )  .
a adenocarcinoma that involves the penis .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the penis .
refractory celiac disease  ( rcd )  is a complex autoimmune disorder much like the more common celiac disease but ,  unlike celiac disease ,  it is resistant or unresponsive to at least 12 months of treatment with a strict gluten - free diet .
prader - willi - like syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  endocrine disease characterized by manifestations of a prader - willi syndrome phenotype  ( including obesity ,  hyperphagia ,  hypotonia ,  psychomotor delay ,  intellectual disability ,  small hands / feet ,  hypogonadism ,  growth hormone deficiency and characteristic facial features )  ocurring in the absence of 15q11 - q13 genomic abnormalities .
a self - limited skin rash that appears in the neonatal period and usually resolves in four to six months after birth .
focal facial dermal dysplasias  ( ffdd )  are rare ectodermal dysplasias ,  characterized by congenital bitemporal  ( resembling forceps marks )  or preauricular scar - like lesions associated with additional facial and or systematic manifestations .
an invasive malignant tumor that originates from the surface epithelium of the ovary .
a malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary .
klhl9 - related early - onset distal myopathy is a rare ,  genetic distal myopathy characterized by slowly progressive distal limb muscle weakness and atrophy  ( beginning with anterior tibial muscle involvement followed by the intrinsic hand muscles )  in association with reduced sensation in a stocking - glove distribution .
necrotic changes in the bone tissue due to interruption of blood supply .
an area of necrotic bone in the mandible or maxilla .
a condition that is characterized by defective bone growth that affects the growth centers of bone .
epiphysiolysis of the hip is a rare osteonecrosis disorder characterized by unilateral or bilateral disruption of the capital femoral physis with varying degrees of posterior epiphysis translation and simultaneous anterior metaphysis displacement .
an instance of osteonecrosis that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of avascular necrosis that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of osteochondrosis that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
male infertility with azoospermia or oligospermia due to single gene mutation is a rare ,  genetic male infertility due to sperm disorder characterized by the absence of a measurable amount of spermatozoa in the ejaculate  ( azoospermia )  ,  or a number of sperm in the ejaculate inferior to 15 million / ml  ( oligozoospermia )  ,  resulting from a mutation in a single gene known to cause azoo -  or oligo - spermia .
male infertility with teratozoospermia due to single gene mutation is a rare ,  genetic male infertility due to sperm disorder characterized by the presence of spermatozoa with abnormal morphology ,  such as macrozoospermia or globozoospermia ,  in over 85% of sperm ,  resulting from mutation in a single gene known to cause teratozoospermia .
rare genetic male infertility .
an instance of rare male infertility due to hypothalamic - pituitary - gonadal axis disorder that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of rare female infertility due to hypothalamic - pituitary - gonadal axis disorder that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 67 is an extremely rare ,  complex hereditary spastic paraplegia characterized by an infancy or childhood onset of global developmental delay and progressive spasticity with tremor in the distal limbs ,  increased deep tendon reflexes and extensor plantar responses ,  which may be associated with mild intellectual disability .
autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 70 is a very rare ,  complex subtype of hereditary spastic paraplegia that presents in infancy with delayed motor development  ( i .e .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of lipoate biosynthetic process .
partial corpus callosum agenesis - cerebellar vermis hypoplasia with posterior fossa cysts syndrome is a rare ,  hereditary ,  cerebral malformation with epilepsy syndrome characterized by severe global developmental delay with no ability to walk and no verbal language ,  intractable epilepsy ,  partial agenesis of the corpus callosum and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia with posterior fossa cysts .
acute myeloid leukemia with t ( 6 ; 9 )  ( p23 ; q34 )  is a rare subtype of acute myeloid leukemia with recurrent genetic abnormalities characterized by clonal proliferation of poorly differentiated myeloid blasts in the bone marrow ,  blood ,  or other tissues in patients who present the t ( 6 ; 9 )  ( p23 ; q34 )  translocation .
acute myeloid leukemia with inv ( 3 )  ( q21 ; q26 .2 )  or t ( 3 ; 3 )  ( q21 ; q26 .2 )  is a subtype of acute myeloid leukemia with recurrent genetic abnormalities characterized by clonal proliferation of myeloid blasts in the bone marrow ,  blood and ,  rarely ,  other tissues .
megakaryoblastic acute myeloid leukemia with t ( 1 ; 22 )  ( p13 ; q13 )  is a rare subtype of acute myeloid leukemia with recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities characterized by clonal proliferation of myeloid blasts with predominantly megakaryoblastic differentiation in the bone marrow and blood ,  often with extensive infiltration of the abdominal organs .
acute myeloid leukemia with npm1 somatic mutations is a subtype of acute myeloid leukemia with recurrent genetic abnormalities characterized by clonal proliferation of myeloid blasts harboring mutations of the npm1 gene in the bone marrow ,  blood and other tissues .
inflammation of the colon that is characterized by eosinic infiltration .
autosomal recessive distal renal tubular acidosis  ( ar drta )  is an inherited form of distal renal tubular acidosis  ( drta )  characterized by hypokalemic hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
acitretin / etretinate embryopathy is a teratogenic disorder due to acitretin or etretinate exposure during the first trimester of pregnancy ,  carrying a risk of fetal malformations of approximately 20% ,  including central nervous system ,  craniofacial ,  ear ,  thymic ,  cardiac and limb anomalies .
an uncommon benign cartilaginous neoplasm arising from the bone .
clear cell papillary renal cell carcinoma is a rare ,  indolent subtype of clear cell renal carcinoma ,  arising from epithelial cells in the renal cortex .
acquired cystic disease - associated renal cell carcinoma is a rare subtype of renal cell carcinoma ,  ocurring in the context of end - stage kidney disease and acquired cystic kidney disease ,  characterized by a usually well circumscribed ,  solid ,  multifocal ,  bilateral tumor with inter -  or intracellular microlumen formation  ( leading to cribiform architecture )  .
spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress type 2 is a rare ,  genetic ,  motor neuron disease characterized by progressive early respiratory failure associated with diaphragm paralysis ,  distal muscular weakness ,  joint contractures ,  and axial hypotonia with preserved antigravity limb movements .
x - linked form of distal hereditary motor neuropathy .
an autoinflammatory disease caused by mutations in the il36rn gene ,  which encodes the il36 receptor antagonist .
an instance of dysostosis that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia  ( fhh )  is a generally asymptomatic genetic disorder of phosphocalcic metabolism characterized by lifelong moderate hypercalcemia along with normo -  or hypocalciuria and elevated plasma parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  concentration .
isolated glycerol kinase deficiency  ( gkd )  is a very rare x - linked disorder of glycerol metabolism characterized biochemically by elevated plasma and urine glycerol levels ,  and clinically by variable neurometabolic manifestations ,  depending on the age of onset ,  and varying from a life - threatening childhood metabolic crisis to an asymptomatic adult form  ( infantile gkd ,  juvenile gkd ,  and adult gkd  )  .
eales disease  ( ed )  is an idiopathic ,  inflammatory retinal venous occlusive disease characterized by 3 stages: vasculitis ,  occlusion and retinal neovascularization ,  leading to recurrent vitreous hemorrhages and vision loss .
mild phosphoribosylpyrophosphate  ( prpp )  synthetase superactivity is the mild and late - onset form of prpp synthetase superactivity ,  an x - linked disorder of purine metabolism associated with hyperuricemia and hyperuricosuria ,  leading to urolithiasis and gout .
severe phosphoribosylpyrophosphate  ( prpp )  synthetase superactivity is the severe and early - onset form of prpp synthetase superactivity ,  an x - linked disorder of purine metabolism associated with hyperuricemia and hyperuricosuria ,  that is characterized by urolithiasis ,  gout and neurodevelopmental anomalies .
insulin autoimmune syndrome is a rare condition that causes low blood sugar  ( hypoglycemia )  .
hereditary late - onset parkinson disease  ( lopd )  is a form of parkinson disease  ( pd )  ,  characterized by an age of onset of more than 50 years ,  tremor at rest ,  gait complaints and falls ,  bradykinesia ,  rigidity and painful cramps .
nephropathic infantile cystinosis is the most common and severe form of cystinosis ,  a metabolic disease characterized by an accumulation of cystine inside the lysosomes that causes damage in different organs and tissues ,  particularly in the kidneys and eyes .
proton - pump inhibitor - responsive esophageal eosinophilia  ( ppi - ree )  is a rare ,  gastroenterologic disease characterized by typical clinical ,  endoscopic and histological features of eosinophilic oesophagitis  ( i .e .
renal agenesis  ( ra )  is a form of renal tract malformation characterized by the complete absence of development of one or both kidneys  ( unilateral ra or bilateral ra respectively )  ,  accompanied by absent ureter ( s )  .
generalized eruptive keratoacanthoma  ( geka )  is rare variant of keratoacanthoma  ( ka )  that affects the skin and mucous membranes and which is characterized by a sudden generalized eruption of severely pruritic ,  hundreds to thousands of small follicular papules ,  often with a central keratotic plug .
familial isolated trichomegaly is a rare genetic hair anomaly characterized by a prolonged anagen phase of the eyelash hairs ,  leading to extreme eyelash growth that may result in corneal irritation .
hyperlipoproteinemia  ( hlp )  type 3 is a rare combined hyperlipidemia characterized by high levels of cholesterol and triglycerides ,  transported by intermediate density lipoproteins  ( idls )  ,  and a high risk of premature atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease .
13q12 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by moderate intellectual disability ,  speech delay ,  postnatal microcephaly ,  eczema or atopic dermatitis ,  characteristic facial features  ( malar flattening ,  prominent nose ,  underdeveloped alae nasi ,  smooth philtrum ,  and thin vermillion of the upper lip )  ,  and reduced sensitivity to pain .
congenital adrenal hyperplasia  ( cah )  is an inherited endocrine disorder caused by a steroidogenic enzyme deficiency that is characterized by adrenal insufficiency and variable degrees of hyper or hypo androgeny manifestations ,  depending of the type and the severity of the disease .
an esophageal carcinoma characterized by the absence of microscopic features of squamous differentiation .
a form of pulmonary alveolar proteinosis that arises in association with hematological disorders ,  medications ,  certain infections ,  acute silicosis ,  and immunodeficiency .
semicircular canal dehiscence  ( scd )  syndrome is a rare otorhinolaryngologic disease characterized by the uni -  or bilateral dehiscence of the bone ( s )  overlying the superior  ( most common )  ,  lateral or posterior semicircular canal ( s )  .
glycogen storage disease due to acid maltase deficiency ,  late onset  ( amdl )  ,  a form of glycogen storage disease due to acid maltase deficiency  ( amd )  ,  a degenerative metabolic myopathy particularly affecting respiratory and skeletal muscles ,  is characterized by an accumulation of glycogen in lysosomes .
visual snow syndrome is described as a persistent visual problem characterized by seeing snow - like dots .
autoimmune encephalopathy with parasomnia and obstructive sleep apnea is a rare neurologic disorder characterized by a unique non - rem and rem parasomnia with sleep breathing dysfunction ,  gait instability and repetitive episodes of respiratory insufficiency ,  as well as autoantibodies against iglon5 .
cono - spondylar dysplasia is a rare genetic primary bone dysplasia disorder characterized by early - onset severe lumbar kyphosis ,  marked brachydactyly and irregular ,  pronounced cone epiphyses of the metacarpals and phalanges .
a manifestation of von hippel - lindau disease or other familial renal cell cancer syndromes that present as a malignant epithelial neoplasm of the kidney .
malignant hyperthermia  ( mh )  is a pharmacogenetic disorder of skeletal muscle that presents as a hypermetabolic response to potent volatile anesthetic gases such as halothane ,  sevoflurane ,  desflurane and the depolarizing muscle relaxant succinylcholine ,  and rarely ,  to stresses such as vigorous exercise and heat .
microcephaly - short stature - intellectual disability - facial dysmorphism syndrome is a rare genetic malformation syndrome with short stature characterized by postnatal microcephaly ,  failure to thrive and short stature ,  global developmental delay and intellectual disability ,  hypotonia ,  dysmorphic features  ( short nose ,  depressed nasal bridge ,  low set ears ,  short neck ,  clinodactyly and cutaneous syndactyly of t2 - 3 at birth and broad forehead ,  midface retrusion ,  epicanthal folds ,  laterally sparse eyebrows ,  short nose ,  long philtrum ,  widely spaced teeth ,  micrognathia and coarsening of facial features later in life )  .
#945 ;  - fetoprotein and intrauterine growth restriction is observed in routine pregnancy examination .
rare autonomic nervous system disease .
cutaneous larva migrans is a rare parasitic disease characterized by single or multiple ,  linear or serpinginous ,  erythematous ,  slightly elevated cutaneous tracks caused by the larval migration of various nematode species .
rare stomach carcinoma .
hereditary gastric cancer refers to the occurrence of gastric cancer in a familial context and is described as two or more cases of gastric cancer in first or second degree relatives with at least one case diagnosed before the age of 50 .
a carcinoma that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the absence of microscopic features of glandular or squamous differentiation .
any of the forms of small intestine neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
microcephaly - complex motor and sensory axonal neuropathy syndrome is an extremely rare subtype of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by severe ,  rapidly - progressing ,  distal ,  symmetric polyneuropathy and microcephaly  ( which can be evident in utero )  with intact cognition .
any of the forms of small intestine carcinoma that have a rare incidence .
a carcinoma that arises from the small intestine .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the small intestine .
a epithelial neoplasm that involves the vermiform appendix .
any of the forms of epithelial tumor of colon that have a rare incidence .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the colon .
any of the forms of epithelial neoplasm of rectum that have a rare incidence .
a very rare rectal carcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant squamous cell infiltrate .
a epithelial neoplasm that involves the anal canal .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the pancreas .
a non - metastasizing cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas .
congenital myopathy with myasthenic - like onset is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - dystrophic myopathy characterized by fatigable muscle weakness associated with congenital myopathy .
a carcinoma that arises from the hepatocytes or intrahepatic bile ducts .
undifferentiated carcinoma of liver and intrahepatic biliary tract is an extremely rare epithelial tumor of the liver and biliary tract which presents heterogenous histological findings and not yet fully defined clinicopathological characterisitcs .
squamous cell carcinoma of liver and intrahepatic biliary tract is an extremely rare ,  primary ,  malignant liver and biliray tract epithelial tumor originating in the intrahepatic bile duct epithelium histologically characterized by the presence of keratinization and / or intracellular bridges .
a cystadenocarcinoma that involves the biliary tree .
adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder and extrahepatic biliary tract is a rare epithelial carcinoma ,  arising either in the gallbladder itself or from the epithelium lining the extrahepatic biliary tree ,  cystic duct and / or peribiliary gland ,  characterized by nonspecific symptoms ,  such as abdominal pain ,  jaundice and vomiting and sometimes mimicking benign biliary diseases .
squamous cell carcinoma of the gallbladder and extrahepatic biliary tract is a rare hepatic and biliary tract tumor ,  arising either in the gallbladder itself or in the epithelium lining the extrahepatic biliary tree ,  the cystic duct and peribiliary glands .
pfapa  ( periodic fever  -  aphthous stomatitis -  pharyngitis  -  adenopathy )  syndrome is an auto inflammatory syndrome characterized by recurrent febrile episodes associated with aphthous stomatitis ,  pharyngitis and cervical adenitis .
aldosterone synthase deficiency is a rare inherited defect of the final step of aldosterone biosynthesis  ( conversion of deoxycorticosterone to aldosterone )  .
autosomal dominant hypocalcemia  ( ad hypocalcemia )  is a disorder of calcium homeostasis characterized by variable degrees of hypocalcemia with abnormally low levels of parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  and persistant normal or elevated calciuria .
x - linked adrenoleukodystrophy  ( x - ald )  is a peroxisomal disorder resulting in cerebral demyelination ,  axonal dysfunction in the spinal cord leading to spastic paraplegia ,  adrenal insufficiency and in some cases testicular insufficiency .
serotoninergic syndrome is characterised by an excess of serotonin in the central nervous system ,  associated with the use of various agents ,  including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors  ( ssris )  .
acute tricyclic antidepressant  ( tca )  poisoning is a potentially lethal intoxication that is characterized by life - threatening arrhythmias  ( sinus tachycardias ,  premature ventricular contractions ,  ventricular arrhythmias )  ,  anticholinergic toxidrome  ( mydriasis ,  dry mucous membrane ,  tachycardia ,  hypertension )  ,  central nervous system toxicity  ( lethargy ,  coma ,  myoclonic jerks )  ,  refractory hypotension ,  and sudden death .
acute poisoning with a membrane - stabilizing effect is potentially life - threatening .
patent urachus is a type of congenital urachal anomaly characterized by a persistent communication between the bladder and the umbilicus ,  secondary to non occlusion of the urachal lumen ,  manifesting as clear drainage from the umbilicus .
urachal sinus is a type of congenital urachal anomaly resulting from the failure of the umbilical end of the urachus to close ,  without continuity to the bladder ,  and that is usually asymptomatic but can present with continuous cloudy umbilical discharge ,  tender midline infraumbilical mass and fever when infected .
urachal diverticulum is the rarest type of congenital urachal anomaly resulting from the failure of the distal urachus to close at its point of connectivity to the bladder that is usually asymptomatic but can be associated with recurrent urinary tract infections and other complications .
pulmonary veno - occlusive disease and / or pulmonary capillary hemangiomatosis  ( pvod and / or pch )  constitutes a rare subgroup of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  characterized by obliterative fibrosis of the small pulmonary veins and venules and / or capillary infiltration of the pulmonary interstitium leading to increased pulmonary vascular resistance and right ventricular dysfunction .
abnormal ovarian or testicular function due to insufficient hormonal stimulation from the hypothalamic - pituitary axis .
lambert - eaton myasthenic syndrome  ( lems )  is an autoimmune ,  presynaptic disorder of neuromuscular transmission characterized by fluctuating muscle weakness and autonomic dysfunction frequently associated with small - cell lung cancer  ( sclc )  .
rare genetic autonomic nervous system disease .
a precocious puberty that involves the female organism .
3p25 .3 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by intellectual disability ,  epilepsy or eeg abnormalities ,  poor speech ,  ataxia ,  and stereotypic hand movements .
congenital urachal anomaly  ( cua )  describes a group of urachal remnants ,  found more frequently in males than females ,  that result from incomplete closure of the urachus  ( an embryological remnant of the allantois )  during prenatal development ,  and that are usually asymptomatic  ( and found as an incidental finding on a radiological study )  but can also present with umbilical discharge  ( in patent urachus or urachal sinus )  ,  infraumblical mass and pain ,  or with complications such as obstruction and infection .
x - linked microcephaly - growth retardation - prognathism - cryptorchidism syndrome is a rare syndromic intellectual disability characterized by hypotonia ,  microcephaly ,  severe developmental delay ,  seizures ,  intellectual disability ,  growth retardation ,  cardiovascular septal defects ,  cryptorchidism ,  hypospadias ,  and dysmorphic features  -  prominent ears ,  prognathism ,  thin upper lip ,  dental crowding .
hypophosphatasia  ( hpp )  is a rare heritable metabolic disorder characterized by defective mineralization of bone and / or teeth in the presence of reduced activity of unfractionated serum alkaline phosphatase  ( alp )  .
a rare ,  systemic amyloidosis characterized by slowly progressive renal disease presenting with proteinuria ,  hypertension and decreased glomerular filtration rate leading to progressive renal failure .
cutaneous polyarteritis nodosa  ( cpan )  is a rare limited form of polyarteritis nodosa  ( pan )  ,  characterized by cutaneous vasculitis and mild and transient extracutaneous manifestations such as mild arthralgia ,  arthritis , myalgia ,  and rarely peripheral neuropathy .
secondary polyarteritis nodosa  ( pan )  is a rare serious form of pan characterized by vasculitis in a background of viral infection ,  primarily with hepatitis b virus  ( hbv )  .
single - organ polyarteritis nodosa  ( pan )  is a rare ,  often mild form of pan characterized by limited disease without generalized manifestations ,  most often affecting the skin  ( cutaneous pan )  ,  the brain ,  eyes ,  pancreas ,  testicles ,  ureter ,  breasts ,  or ovaries .
systemic polyarteritis nodosa  ( pan )  is a chronic systemic necrotizingvasculitis of adults and childrenaffecting small -  and medium - sized vessels and characterized by formation of microaneurysms leading to serious generalized disease and multi - organ involvement .
a lymphatic flow disorder that causes severe respiratory issues .
neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy  ( nald )  is the variant of intermediate severity of the pbd - zellweger syndrome spectrum  ( pbd - zss )  ,  charcterized by hypotonia ,  leukodystrophy ,  and vision and sensorineural hearing deficiencies .
hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer characterized by the absence of germline mutations in dna mismatch - repair genes .
pure autonomic failure  ( paf )  is a neurodegenerative disease that affects the sympathetic branch of the autonomous nervous system and that manifests with orthostatic hypotension .
a hereditary optic neuropathy that is part of a larger syndrome .
congenital hypothyroidism  ( ch )  is defined as a thyroid hormone deficiency present from birth .
hemicrania continua  ( hc )  is a type of primary headache disorder ,  which means the headache is not caused by another medical condition .
central serous chorioretinopathy is a disease that causes fluid to build up under the retina ,  the back part of the inner eye that sends sight information to the brain .
baroreflex failure is a rare disorder that causes fluctuations in blood pressure with episodes of severe hypertension  ( high blood pressure )  and elevated heart rate in response to stress ,  exercise ,  and pain .
postpartum psychosis is a rare psychiatric emergency in which symptoms of high mood and racing thoughts  ( mania )  ,  depression ,  severe confusion ,  loss of inhibition ,  paranoia ,  hallucinations and delusions set in ,  beginning suddenly in the first two weeks after childbirth .
a condition resembling typhoid fever that is caused by infection by salmonella enterica serovar parathyphi .
hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer  ( hnpcc )  is a cancer - predisposing condition characterized by the development of colorectal cancer not associated with colorectal polyposis ,  endometrial cancer ,  and various other cancers  ( such as malignant epithelial tumor of ovary ,  gastric ,  biliary tract ,  small bowel ,  and urinary tract cancer )  that are frequently diagnosed at an early age .
marie unna hereditary hypotrichosis  ( muhh )  is a rare autosomal dominant hair loss disorder characterized by the absence or scarcity of scalp hair ,  eyebrows ,  and eyelashes at birth ;  coarse and wiry hair during childhood ;  and progressive hair loss beginning around puberty .
20q11 .2 microdeletion syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disability characterized by psychomotor delay ,  hypotonia ,  feeding difficulties ,  failure to thrive ,  anomalies of the hands and feet  ( clinodactyly ,  camptodactyly ,  brachydactyly ,  feet malposition )  ,  and craniofacial dysmorphism .
hereditary amyloidosis refers to a group of inherited conditions that make up one of the subtypes of amyloidosis .
an inherited or acquired disorder of electrolyte metabolism ,  characterized by the inability of the renal tubules to respond to aldosterone .
caudal regression - sirenomelia spectrum is a group of rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis disorders characterized by varying degrees of caudal abdomen ,  pelvic ,  renal ,  anorectal ,  urogenital and / or lumbosacral spine malformations ,  with or without lower limb fusion .
paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria  ( pnh )  is an acquired clonal hematopoietic stem cell disorder characterized by corpuscular hemolytic anemia ,  bone marrow failure and frequent thrombotic events .
a immunodeficiency disorder caused by loss of function mutation in nik  ( map3k14 )  .
a chronic ,  autoimmune inflammatory liver disorder characterized by narrowing and scarring of the lumen of the bile ducts .
an intraosseous odontogenic neoplasm that usually arises from the mandible .
a vision disorder that results from damage of the part of the cerebral cortex that is involved in the processing of visual information .
19p13 .3 microduplication syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disability characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  microcephaly ,  hypotonia ,  motor and neurodevelopmental delay ,  speech delay ,  intellectual disability ,  and mild dysmorphic features .
hemophilia is a genetic disorder characterized by spontaneous hemorrhage or prolonged bleeding due to factor viii or ix deficiency .
mosquito - born virus disease characterized by a clinical course that may be asymptomatic or mild with fever ,  conjunctivitis ,  muscle and joint pain ,  headache ,  exanthema ,  but may also be associated with severe neurological  ( meningitis ,  meningoencephalitis and myelitis )  and auto - immune  ( guillain - barre syndrome )  complications ,  as well as a potential increase of birth defects  ( microcephaly )  if the infection occurs during pregnancy .
brachyolmia ,  recessive type is a form of brachyolmia ,  a group of rare genetic skeletal disorders ,  characterized by short - trunked short stature with platyspondyly and scoliosis .
a rare congenital anomaly where the heart is formed outside of the thoracic cavity .
hepatoblastoma  ( hb )  is a malignant hepatic tumor and is the most common pediatric liver cancer .
the presence of pus in the thoracic cavity ,  between the visceral and parietal pleura .
idiopathic hypertrophic pachymeningitis  ( ihp )  is a rare disorder causing inflammation and thickening of the outer layer  ( dura )  of the brain and / or spinal cord .
a chronic fibrotic inflammatory process affecting the salivary gland .
a igg4 - related disease that involves the eye .
a rare ,  genetic disorder in which symptoms are generally secondary to the abnormal location of the organs within the thoracic ,  abdominal ,  or peritoneal cavities .
a pseudolymphoma of the skin .
a non - hereditary form of ichthyosis characterized by plate - like scales on the legs ,  arms and occasionally the torso .
idiopathic neonatal atrial flutter  ( afl )  is a rare rhythm disorder ,  characterized by sustained tachycardia in newborns and infants with an atrial rate often at around 440 beats / minute  ( range 340 - 580 )  .
incessant infant ventricular tachycardia is a rare type of ventricular tachycardia  ( vt )  characterized by the presence of tachycardia originating from the ventricles ,  observed for more than 10% of a 24 hour monitoring period .
an instance of creutzfeldt jacob disease that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a rare ,  milder form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis .
an aggressive plasma cell neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic plasma cells in the peripheral blood .
a rare syndrome characterized by an abnormally dilated pupil ,  hypoflexia ,  and diaphoresis .
a congenital or acquired abnormal communication between the trachea and the esophagus .
infection of domestic and wild fowl and other birds with influenza a virus .
corticobasal syndrome  ( cbs )  is a rare neurodegenerative disease characterized by multifaceted motor system dysfunctions and cognitive defects such as asymmetric rigidity ,  bradykinesia ,  limb apraxia ,  and visuospatial dysfunction .
an instance of neuroendocrine tumor of the small intestine that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a clinicopathologic variant of multicentric castleman's disease characterized by thrombocytopenia ,  ascites  ( anasarca )  ,  microcytic anemia ,  myelofibrosis ,  renal dysfunction ,  and organomegaly
an intermediate ,  locally aggressive and rarely metastasizing blood vessel neoplasm .
an intermediate ,  locally aggressive and rarely metastasizing blood vessel neoplasm .
an intermediate ,  rarely metastasizing blood vessel neoplasm .
a hemangioma present and fully formed at birth .
a clinical subtype of congenital hemangioma that begins as a rapidly involuting congenital hemangioma  ( rich )  but fails to completely involute and persists as a non - involuting congenital hemangioma  ( nich )  - like lesion
an instance of rare vascular tumor that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of rare venous malformation that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
a skin hemangioma characterized by the presence of epidermal hyperplasia .
human malt1 wild - type allele is located in the vicinity of 18q21 and is approximately 79 kb in length .
a generalized lymphatic anomaly characterized by kaposiform spindled lymphatic endothelial cells .
a benign neoplasm that involves the metanephros .
methemoglobinemia that is caused by exposure to certain drugs  ( xylocaine and benzene )  .
oligodendrogliomas are cerebral tumors that are differentiated from other gliomas on the basis of their unique genetic characteristics and better response to chemotherapy .
pemphigus is a group of chronic autoimmune skin diseases characterised by blister formations on the outer layer of the skin and the mucous membranes .
mucous membrane pemphigoid is a bullous dermatosis characterised clinically by blistering of the mucous membranes followed by scarring ,  and immunologically by igg ,  iga and / or c3 deposits on the epidermal basement membrane .
epidermolysis bullosa acquisita  ( eba )  is a subepidermal bullous dermatosis of autoimmune origin that was named as a result of its resemblance to hereditary forms of epidermolysis bullosa  ( heb )  ,  most notably dystrophic heb .
autoimmune disease characterized by subepidermal blisters and linear deposition of autoantibodies at the dermoepidermal junction .
hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin  ( hpfh )  associated with beta - thalassemia is characterized by high hemoglobin  ( hb )  f levels and an increased number of fetal - hb - containing - cells .
an instance of otorhinolaryngologic disease that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
scorpion envenomation is a rare intoxication caused by a scorpion sting which typically manifests with localized pain ,  edema ,  erythema ,  and paresthesias at the site of the sting and ,  when severe ,  progresses to produce systemic symptoms of variable severity that include respiratory difficulties ,  abnormal systemic blood pressure ,  cardiac arrhythmia ,  and a combination of parasympathetic  ( i .e .
supratip dysplasia is a rare ,  congenital ,  non - syndromic ,  nose and cavum malformation characterized by the presence of a bulbous ,  soft tissue hypertrophy located in the middle - to - distal third of the nasal dorsum ,  in association with deformed ,  slightly laterally -  and caudally - placed nasal alae and a scar - like atrophic skin lesion located at the nasal tip .
familial patent arterial duct is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital anomaly of the great arteries characterized by the presence of an isolated patent arterial duct  ( pda )   ( i .e .
congenital hypopituitarism is characterized by multiple pituitary hormone deficiency ,  including somatotroph ,  thyrotroph ,  lactotroph ,  corticotroph or gonadotroph deficiencies ,  due to mutations of pituitary transcription factors involved in pituitary ontogenesis .
microcephalic primordial dwarfism due to rttn deficiency is a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by primary microcephaly ,  profound short stature ,  moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  global developmental delay ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
familial cold urticaria  ( fcas )  is the mildest form of cryopyrin - associated periodic syndrome  ( caps )  and is characterized by recurrent episodes of urticaria - like skin rash triggered by exposure to cold associated with low - grade fever ,  general malaise ,  eye redness and arthralgia / myalgia .
an intestinal infection with isospora belli .
jeune syndrome ,  also called asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy ,  is a short - rib dysplasia characterized by a narrow thorax ,  short limbs and radiological skeletal abnormalities including  \ "trident \ " aspect of the acetabula and metaphyseal changes .
a congenital heart malformation that involves the interventricular septum .
joubert syndrome  ( js )  is characterized by congenital malformation of the brainstem and agenesis or hypoplasia of the cerebellar vermis leading to an abnormal respiratory pattern ,  nystagmus ,  hypotonia ,  ataxia ,  and delay in achieving motor milestones .
erythrokeratodermia - cardiomyopathy syndrome is a rare ,  genetic erythrokeratoderma disorder characterized by generalized cutaneous erythema with fine white scales and pruritus refractory to treatment ,  progressive dilated cardiomyopathy ,  palmoplantar keratoderma ,  sparse or absent eyebrows and eyelashes ,  sparse scalp hair ,  nail dystrophy ,  and dental enamel anomalies .
keratitis  ( and hystrix - like )  ichthyosis deafness  ( kid / hid )  syndrome is a rare congenital ectodermal disorder characterized by vascularizing keratitis ,  hyperkeratotic skin lesions and hearing loss .
pediatric multiple sclerosis  ( ms )  is a rare multiple sclerosis variant characterized by the onset of multiple sclerosis  ( i .e .
a self - limiting ,  rapidly growing ,  non - encapsulated benign neoplasm that arises from the soft tissues .
rare hypercholesterolemia .
kallmann syndrome  ( ks )  is a developmental genetic disorder characterized by the association of congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism  ( chh )  due to gonadotropin - releasing hormone  ( gnrh )  deficiency ,  and anosmia or hyposmia  ( with hypoplasia or aplasia of the olfactory bulbs )  .
congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens  ( cbavd )  is a condition leading to male infertility .
cystic dilatation of the hepatic duct or bile duct .
lethal hydranencephaly - diaphragmatic hernia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  lethal ,  multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by hydranencephaly and diaphragmatic hernia ,  as well as macrocephaly ,  a widely open anterior fontanel ,  scaphoid abdomen and hypotonia .
congenital portosystemic shunt is a rare ,  congenital anomaly of the great veins characterized by an abnormal communication between one or more veins of the portal and the caval systems ,  resulting in complete or partial diversion of the portal blood away from the liver to the systemic circulation .
a locally aggressive and destructive benign cystic lesion of the bone .
isolated neonatal sclerosing cholangitis is a rare ,  genetic ,  biliary tract disease characterized by severe neonatal - onset cholangiopathy with patent bile ducts and absence of ichthyosiform skin lesions .
recurrent metabolic encephalomyopathic crises - rhabdomyolysis - cardiac arrhythmia - intellectual disability syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  neurodegenerative disease characterized by episodic metabolic encephalomyopathic crises  ( of variable frequency and severity which are frequently precipitated by an acute illness )  which manifest with profound muscle weakness ,  ataxia ,  seizures ,  cardiac arrhythmias ,  rhabdomyolysis with myoglobinuria ,  elevated plasma creatine kinase ,  hypoglycemia ,  lactic acidosis ,  increased acylcarnitines and a disorientated or comatose state .
global developmental delay - visual anomalies - progressive cerebellar atrophy - truncal hypotonia syndrome is a rare ,  genetic ,  neurological disorder characterized by mild to severe developmental delay and speech impairment ,  truncal hypotonia ,  abnormalities of vision  ( including cortical visual impairment and abnormal visual - evoked potentials )  ,  progressive brain atrophy mainly affecting the cerebellum ,  and shortened or atrophic corpus callosum .
pyoderma gangrenosum  ( pg )  is a primarily sterile inflammatory neutrophilic dermatosis characterized by recurrent cutaneous ulcerations with a mucopurulent or hemorrhagic exudate .
pycr2 - related microcephaly - progressive leukoencephalopathy is a rare ,  genetic ,  syndromic intellectual disability disorder characterized by progressive postnatal microcephaly ,  cerebral hypomyelination and severe psychomotor developmental delayed with absent speech ,  as well as axial hypotonia ,  appendicular hypertonia with hyperextensibility of the wrists and ankles ,  hyperreflexia ,  severe muscle wasting and failure to thrive .
lewis - sumner syndrome  ( lss )  is a rare acquired demyelinating polyneuropathy characterized by asymmetrical distal weakness of the upper or lower extremities and motor dysfunction with adult onset .
an instance of chilblain lupus that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of schizencephaly that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
kimura disease is a benign and chronic inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology ,  occurring mainly in asian countries  ( very rarely in western countries )  and predominantly affecting young men ,  that usually presents with a solitary or multiple non - tender subcutaneous masses in the head and neck region  ( in particular the preauricular and submandibular area )  and / or generalized painless lymphadenopathy ,  often with salivary gland involvement .
nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver is a rare parenchymatous liver disease characterized by diffuse benign transformation of the hepatic parenchyma into multiple small nodules  ( composed of regenerating hepatocytes )  and that is usually asymptomatic but can lead to the development of non - cirrhotic portal hypertension and its complications ,  including esophageal variceal bleeding ,  hypersplenism and ascites .
vasculitis ,  characterized by inflammatory lesions in the wall of vessels ,  may be due to different viruses .
the term lissencephaly covers a group of rare malformations sharing the common feature of anomalies in the appearance of brain convolutions  ( characterised by simplification or absence of folding )  associated with abnormal organisation of the cortical layers as a result of neuronal migration defects during embryogenesis .
an instance of schizencephaly that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a congenital disorder usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern .
primary effusion lymphoma  ( pel )  is a large b - cell lymphoma located in the body cavities ,  characterized by pleural ,  peritoneal ,  and pericardial fluid lymphomatous effusions and that is always associated with human herpes virus - 8  ( hhv - 8 )  .
a embryonal carcinoma that involves the central nervous system .
urachal cyst is a congenital urachal anomaly characterized by a failure of complete closure of the urachus ,  in which both ends are closed but the central lumen remains patent .
focal myositis is a rare inflammatory myopathy characterized by a localized swelling of skeletal muscle that is usually located in the lower extremities .
an extremely rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the penis .
retroperitoneal fibrosis  ( rpf )  is characterized by the development of a fibrotic mass surrounding retroperitoneal structures ,  such as aorta ,  vena cava ,  ureters and psoas muscle .
dentinogenesis imperfecta  ( dgi )  is a hereditary dentin defect characterized by abnormal dentin structure resulting in abnormal tooth development .
proliferating trichilemmal tumor is a rare large ,  multinodular ,  usually benign ,  tumor that is generally located in the posterior part of the scalp in aged women  ( over 50 years )  .
multiple familial keratoacanthoma  ( ka )  of witten and zak is a rare a rare inherited skin cancer syndrome and is characterized by the coexistence of features characteristic of both multiple ka ,  ferguson smith type and generalized eruptive keratoacanthoma ,  such as multiple small miliary - type lesions ,  larger self - healing lesions ,  and nodulo - ulcerative lesions .
achromatopsia  ( achm )  is a rare autosomal recessive retinal disorder characterized by color blindness ,  nystagmus ,  photophobia ,  and severely reduced visual acuity due to the absence or impairment of cone function .
purpura fulminans  ( pf )  is a life - threatening ,  rapidly progressive thrombotic disorder affecting mainly neonates and children that is characterized by purpuric skin lesions and disseminated intravascular coagulation .
an uncommon form of keratosis pilaris in which there are scar - like follicular depressions and loss of hair .
lichen amyloidosis is a rare chronic form of cutaneous amyloidosis ,  a skin disease characterized by the accumulation of amyloid deposits in the dermis ,  clinically characterized by the development of pruritic ,  often pigmented ,  hyperkeratotic papules on trunk and extremities ,  especially on the shins ,  and histologically by the deposition of amyloid or amyloid - like proteins in the papillary dermis .
graham little - piccardi - lassueur syndrome is a variant of lichen planopilaris characterized by the clinical triad of progressive cicatricial  ( scarring )  alopecia of the scalp ,  follicular keratotic papules on glabrous skin ,  and variable alopecia of the axillae and groin .
microlissencephaly - micromelia syndrome is a syndrome of abnormal cortical development ,  characterized by severe prenatal polyhydramnios ,  postnatal microcephaly ,  lissencephaly ,  upper limb micromelia ,  dysmorphic facies  ( coarse face ,  hypertrichosis ,  and short nose with long philtrum )  ,  intractable seizures ,  and early death .
zellweger - like syndrome without peroxisomal anomalies is an extremely rare mitochondrial disorder characterized by facial dysmorphism similar to that seen in zellweger syndrome ,  such as frontal bossing ,  high forehead ,  upslanting palpebral fissures ,  hypoplastic supraorbital ridges ,  and epicanthal folds ,  and in addition ,  pale skin ,  profound hypotonia ,  developmental delay ,  and minor metabolic anomalies .
kikuchi - fujimoto disease  ( kfd )  is a benign and self - limited disorder ,  characterized by regional cervical lymphadenopathy with tenderness ,  usually accompanied with mild fever and night sweats .
striate palmoplantar keratoderma is an isolated ,  focal ,  hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma characterized by linear hyperkeratosis along the flexor aspect of the fingers and on palms ,  as well as focal hyperkeratosis of the plantar skin .
aicardi - goutieres syndrome  ( ags )  is an inherited ,  subacute encephalopathy characterised by the association of basal ganglia calcification ,  leukodystrophy and cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  lymphocytosis .
metachromatic leukodystrophy  ( mld )  is a rare lysosomal storage disorder characterized byintralysosomal accumulation of sulfatides in various tissues ,  leading to progressive deterioration of motor and neurocognitive function .
cobblestone lissencephaly is a rare central nervous system malformation which includes a group of diseases that are characterized by a bumpy  ( or pebbled )  appearance of the cerebral cortex ,  associated with a thickened cortex ,  reduction in normal sulcation ,  ventriculomegaly and reduced ,  abnormal white matter ,  as well as brainstem and cerebellum hypoplasia and corpus callosum agenesis .
idiopathic arterial calcification of infancy is a rare condition characterized by extensive calcification and stenosis of the large and medium sized arteries .
an acute leukemia characterized by the proliferation of both neutrophil and monocyte precursors .
acute megakaryoblastic leukemia  ( amkl )  is a form of acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  that occurs predominantly in childhood and particularly in children with down syndrome  ( ds - amkl )  .
anterior cutaneous nerve entrapment syndrome  ( acnes )  is a chronic neuropathic pain syndrome of the abdominal wall caused by entrapment of anterior cutaneous branches of 7 to 12th intercostal nerves along the lateral border of the anterior rectus abdominis fascia causing severe pain and tenderness of the involved dermatome .
acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  is a group of neoplasms arising from precursor cells committed to the myeloid cell - line differentiation .
li - fraumeni syndrome  ( lfs )  is a rare cancer predisposition syndrome characterized by the early - onset of multiple primary cancers such as breast cancer ,  soft tissue and bone sarcomas ,  brain tumors and adrenal cortical carcinoma  ( acc )  .
mantle cell lymphoma is a rare form of malignant non - hodgkin lymphoma affecting b lymphocytes in the lymph nodes in a region called the ``mantle zone'' .
branchiootic syndrome is a rare ,  genetic multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by second branchial arch anomalies  ( branchial cysts and fistulae )  ,  malformations of the outer ,  middle and inner ear associated with sensorineural ,  mixed or conductive hearing loss ,  and the absence of renal abnormalities .
lichen planopilaris  ( lpp )  is a rare cutaneous variant of lichen planus which affects hair follicles .
a clonal hematopoietic disorder characterized by dysplasia and ineffective hematopoiesis in one or more of the hematopoietic cell lines .
vasculitis represents a clinically heterogenous group of diseases of multifactorial etiology characterized by inflammation of either large - sized vessels  ( large - vessel vasculitis ,  e .g .
berardinelli - seip congenital lipodystrophy  ( bscl )  is characterized by the association of lipoatrophy ,  hypertriglyceridemia ,  hepatomegaly and acromegaloid features .
roch - leri mesosomatous lipomatosis is a rare benign autosomal dominant disorder of fat tissue proliferation characterized by the presence of multiple small lipomas of 2 to 5 cm in diameter in the middle third of the body  ( i .e .
orbital leiomyoma is a rare benign smooth muscle tumor arising from the walls of orbital vessels characterized by its slow growth and well encapsulated nature .
cutaneous lupus erythematosus  ( cle )  is an autoimmune disease that denotes a heterogeneous spectrum of clinical manifestations affecting the skin and can be divided into 4 categories: acute cle  ( acle )  ;  subacute cle  ( scle )  ;  chronic cle  ( ccle ;  the most diverse form )  ;  and intermittent cle  ( icle )  .
lyell syndrome is an extended form of toxic epidermal necrolysis characterized by destruction and detachment of the skin epithelium and mucous membranes involving more than 30% of the body surface area .
tumoral calcinosis is a phosphocalcic metabolism anomaly ,  particularly among younger age groups and characterized by the presence of calcified masses in the juxta - articular regions  ( hip ,  elbow ,  ankle and scapula )  without joint involvement .
wyburn - mason syndrome or bonnet - dechaume - blanc syndrome is characterized by the association of arteriovenous malformations of the maxilla ,  retina ,  optic nerve ,  thalamus ,  hypothalamus and cerebral cortex .
cobb syndrome is defined by the association of vascular cutaneous  ( venous or arteriovenous )  ,  muscular  ( arteriovenous )  ,  osseous  ( arteriovenous )  and medullary  ( arteriovenous )  lesions at the same metamere or spinal segment .
plummer - vinson or paterson - kelly syndrome presents as a classical triad of dysphagia ,  iron - deficiency anemia and esophageal webs .
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura  ( ttp )  is an aggressive and life - threatening form of thrombotic microangiopathy  ( tma )  characterized by profound peripheral thrombocytopenia ,  microangiopathic hemolytic anemia  ( maha )  and organ failure of variable severity and is comprised of congenital ttp and acquired ttp .
cutaneous lymphoma is a heterogeneous entity with respect to its clinical and pathological features ,  evolutive profile ,  prognosis ,  molecular aetiology and response to therapy .
posterior cortical atrophy  ( pca )  is a rare progressive neurodegenerative disorder with a typical onset between 50 - 65 years of age characterized by progressive impairment of higher visual processing skills and other posterior cortical functions without any evidence of ocular abnormalities .
corticosteroid - sensitive aseptic abscesses syndrome is a well - defined entity within the group of autoinflammatory disorders .
left ventricular noncompaction  ( lvnc )  is a rare cardiomyopathy characterized anatomically by prominent left ventricular trabeculae and deep intratrabecular recesses causing progressive systolic and diastolic dysfunction ,  conduction abnormalities ,  and occasionally thromboembolic events .
a benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the hepatocytes .
infection of the striated muscle of mammals by parasites of the genus sarcocystis .
membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis  ( mpgn )  is a chronic progressive kidney disorder characterized by glomerular capillary wall structural changes and mesangial cell proliferation leading to nephrotic syndrome ,  hypocomplementemia ,  hypertension ,  proteinuria and end - stage kidney disease .
diffuse large b - cell lymphoma is the most common subtype of non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( nhl )  in adults characterized by a median age of presentation in the sixth decade of life  ( but also rarely occurring in adolescents and children )  with the initial presentation being single or multiple rapidly growing masses  ( that may or may not be painful )  in nodal or extranodal sites  ( such as thyroid ,  skin ,  breast ,  gastrointestinal tract ,  testes ,  bone ,  or brain )  and that can be accompanied by symptoms of fever ,  night sweats and weight loss .
follicular lymphoma is a form of non - hodgkin lymphoma characterized by a proliferation of b cells whose nodular structure of follicular architecture is preserved .
a benign ,  partly cystic ,  epithelial tumor of the sellar region ,  presumably derived from rathke pouch epithelium .
distinct from hodgkin lymphoma both morphologically and biologically ,  non - hodgkin lymphoma  ( nhl )  is characterized by the absence of reed - sternberg cells ,  can occur at any age ,  and usually presents as a localized or generalized lymphadenopathy associated with fever and weight loss .
oculocutaneous albinism  ( oca )  describes a group of inherited disorders of melanin biosynthesis characterized by a generalized reduction in pigmentation of hair ,  skin and eyes and variable ocular findings including nystagmus ,  reduced visual acuity and photophobia .
mody  ( maturity - onset diabetes of the young )  is a rare ,  familial ,  clinically and genetically heterogeneous form of diabetes characterized by young age of onset  ( generally 10 - 45 years of age )  with maintenance of endogenous insulin production ,  lack of pancreatic beta - cell autoimmunity ,  absence of obesity and insulin resistance and extra - pancreatic manifestations in some subtypes .
cushing's syndrome  ( cs )  encompasses a group of hormonal disorders caused by prolonged and high exposure levels to glucocorticoids that can be of either endogenous  ( adrenal cortex production )  or exogenous  ( iatrogenic )  origin .
malakoplakia is a chronic multisystem granulomatous inflammatory disease characterized by the presence of single or multiple soft plaques on various organs of the body .
hypotrichosis simplex  ( hs )  or hereditary hypotrichosis simplex  ( hhs )  is characterized by reduced pilosity over the scalp and body  ( with sparse ,  thin ,  and short hair )  in the absence of other anomalies .
anorectal malformations  ( arm )  comprise a wide spectrum of malformations involving the distal anus and rectum as well as the urinary and genital tracts ,  which can affect boys and girls .
carcinoma of the gallbladder  ( gbc )  is the most common and aggressive form of biliary tract cancer  ( btc )  usually arising in the fundus of the gallbladder ,  rapidly metastasizing to lymph nodes and distant sites .
mccune - albright syndrome  ( mas )  is classically defined by the clinical triad of fibrous dysplasia of bone  ( fd )  ,  cafc )  - au - lait skin spots ,  and precocious puberty  ( pp )  .
peripartum cardiomyopathy  ( ppcm )  is an idiopathic ,  potentially fatal form of dilated cardiomyopathy that develops during the final month of pregnancy or within five months after delivery .
meckel syndrome  ( mks )  is a rare ,  lethal ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomaly disorder characterized by the triad of brain malformation mainly occipital encephalocele ,  large polycystic kidneys ,  and polydactyly as well as associated abnormalities that may include cleft lip / palate ,  cardiac and genital anomalies ,  central nervous system  ( cns )  malformations ,  liver fibrosis ,  and bone dysplasia .
cold agglutinin disease is a type of autoimmune hemolytic anemia defined by the presence of cold autoantibodies  ( autoantibodies which are active at temperatures below 30b0c )  .
22q11 .2 deletion syndrome  ( ds )  is a chromosomal anomaly which causes a congenital malformation disorder whose common features include cardiac defects ,  palatal anomalies ,  facial dysmorphism ,  developmental delay and immune deficiency .
lenz microphthalmia syndrome is a very rare x - linked inherited form of syndromic microphthalmia characterized by unilateral or bilateral microphthalmia  ( and / or clinical anophthalmia )  with or without coloboma in addition to a range of extraocular manifestations such as microcephaly ,  malformed ears ,  dental abnormalities  ( i .e .
hemiplegic migraine  ( hm )  is a rare variety of migraine with aura characterized by the presence of a motor weakness during the aura .
prion diseases are a group of rare transmissible disorders characterized by progressive debilitating neurological manifestations due to spongiform changes with an invariably fatal course .
sunct syndrome  ( short - lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection and tearing )  is a primary headache disorder characterized by unilateral trigeminal pain that occurs in association with ipsilateral cranial autonomic symptoms  ( conjunctival injection and tearing )  .
rare liver disease .
monosomy 21 is a chromosomal anomaly characterized by the loss of variable portions of a segment of the long arm of chromosome 21 that leads to an increased risk of birth defects ,  developmental delay and intellectual deficit .
mucolipidosis iii alpha / beta  ( mliii alpha / beta )  is a lysosomal disorder characterized by progressive slowing of the growth rate from early childhood ,  stiffness and pain in joints ,  gradual coarsening of facial features ,  moderate developmental delay and mild intellectual disability in most patients .
cirrhotic cardiomyopathy is the term used to describe a constellation of features indicative of abnormal heart structure and function in patients with cirrhosis .
mazabraud syndrome is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by the association of fibrous dysplasia with intramuscular myxomas .
hairy cell leukemia  ( hcl )  is a rare type of leukemia in which abnormal b - lymphocytes are present in the bone marrow ,  spleen and peripheral blood .
a rare benign bone - forming neoplasm usually arising from the spine .
mucopolysaccharidosis type iii  ( mps iii )  is a lysosomal storage disease belonging to the group of mucopolysaccharidoses and characterised by severe and rapid intellectual deterioration .
mucopolysaccharidosis type iv  ( mps iv )  is a lysosomal storage disease belonging to the group of mucopolysaccharidoses ,  and characterised by spondylo - epiphyso - metaphyseal dysplasia .
muscle eye brain disease  ( meb )  belongs to a group of genetic ,  degenerative muscular disorders that are present from birth  ( congenital muscular dystrophy )  .
congenital myasthenic syndrome  ( cms )  is a group of genetic disorders of impaired neuromuscular transmission at the motor endplate characterized by fatigable muscle weakness .
furuncular myiasis in humans is caused by two species: the cayor worm  ( larvae of the african tumbu fly cordylobia anthropophaga )  and the larvae of the human botfly  ( dermatobia hominis )  .
myofibrillar myopathy  ( mfm )  describes a group of skeletal and cardiac muscle disorders ,  defined by the disintegration of myofibrils and aggregation of degradation products into intracellular inclusions ,  and is typically clinically characterized by slowly - progressive muscle weakness ,  which initially involves the distal muscles ,  but is highly variable and that can affect the proximal muscles as well as the cardiac and respiratory muscles in some patients .
a diverse group of pregnancy - related tumors characterized by excessive proliferation of trophoblasts .
mcleod neuroacanthocytosis syndrome  ( mls )  is a form of neuroacanthocytosis and is characterized clinically by a huntington's disease - like phenotype with an involuntary hyperkinetic movement disorder ,  psychiatric manifestations and cognitive alterations ,  and biochemically by absence of the kx antigen and by weak expression of the kell antigens .
rhombencephalosynapsis  ( rs )  is a rare malformation of the cerebellum characterised by the association of agenesis  ( total or partial )  of the vermis and fusion of the cerebellar hemispheres .
centronuclear myopathy  ( cnm )  is an inherited neuromuscular disorder characterized by clinical features of a congenital myopathy and centrally placed nuclei on muscle biopsy .
multi - minicore disease  ( mmd )  is a hereditary neuromuscular disorder characterized by multiple cores on muscle biopsy and clinical features of a congenital myopathy .
distal myopathy refers to a group of muscle diseases which share the clinical pattern of predominant weakness and atrophy beginning in the feet and / or hands .
3 - methylcrotonyl - coa carboxylase deficiency  ( 3 - mccd )  is an inherited disorder of leucine metabolism characterized by a highly variable clinical picture ranging from metabolic crisis in infancy to asymptomatic adults .
distal myopathy with vocal cord and pharyngeal weakness is an adult - onset ,  autosomal dominant muscular disease which is characterized by muscle weakness in the feet and hands ,  combined with vocal or swallowing dysfunction .
argyria is a rare dermatosis ,  which can be either localized or systemic ,  that occurs after prolonged contact and absorption of silver containing compounds over a period of years and that is characterized by irreversible blue - gray to gray - black staining of skin ,  fingernails and / or mucous membranes ,  most evident on sun exposed areas of the skin .
enlarged parietal foramina  ( epf )  is a developmental defect ,  characterized by variable intramembranous ossification defects of the parietal bones ,  which is either asymptomatic ,  symptomatic  ( headaches ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  intellectual disability )  or associated with other pathologies .
loeys - dietz syndrome is a rare genetic connective tissue disorder characterized by a broad spectrum of craniofacial ,  vascular and skeletal manifestations with four genetic subtypes described forming a clinical continuum .
recurrent respiratory papillomatosis is a rare respiratory disease characterized by the development of exophytic papillomas ,  affecting the mucosa of the upper aero - digestive tract  ( with a strong predilection for the larynx )  ,  caused by an infection with human papilloma virus .
#160 ;  ( ib )  is a progressive lung disease characterized by chronic dilation of the bronchi and destruction of the bronchial walls in the absence of any underlying cause  ( such as post infectious disease ,  aspiration ,  immunodeficiency ,  congenital abnormalities and ciliary anomalies )  .
pudendal neuralgia  ( pn )  is a chronic neuropathic pain ,  aggravated by sitting and for which no organic cause can be found by imaging studies .
nemaline myopathy  ( nm )  encompasses a large spectrum of myopathies characterized by hypotonia ,  weakness and depressed or absent deep tendon reflexes ,  with pathologic evidence of nemaline bodies  ( rods )  on muscle biopsy .
potassium - aggravated myotonia  ( pam )  is a muscular channelopathy presenting with a pure myotonia dramatically aggravated by potassium ingestion ,  with variable cold sensitivity and no episodic weakness .
congenital primary megaureter  ( pm )  is an idiopathic condition in which the bladder and bladder outlet are normal but the ureter is dilated to some extent .
familial melanoma  ( fm )  is a rare inherited form of melanoma characterized by development of histologically confirmed melanoma in two first degrees relatives or more relatives in an affected family .
methemoglobinemia inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern .
homocystinuria without methylmalonic aciduria is an inborn error of vitamin b12  ( cobalamin )  metabolism characterized by megaloblastic anemia ,  encephalopathy and ,  sometimes ,  developmental delay ,  and associated with homocystinuria and hyperhomocysteinemia .
a genetic syndrome usually inherited as an x - link trait .
iniencephaly is a rare form of neural tube defect in which a malformation of the cervico - occipital junction is associated with a malformation of the central nervous system .
craniorachischisis is the most severe form of neural tube defect in which both the brain and spinal cord remain open to varying degrees .
isolated oxycephaly is a late - appearing form of nonsyndromic craniosynostosis characterized by premature fusion of both the coronal and sagittal sutures ,  and ,  in some cases ,  of the lambdoid sutures .
pemphigus is a group of chronic autoimmune skin diseases characterised by blisters formation on the outer layer of the skin and the mucous membranes .
neurofibromatosis type 1  ( nf1 )  is a clinically heterogeneous ,  neurocutaneous genetic disorder characterized by cafe - au - lait spots ,  iris lisch nodules ,  axillary and inguinal freckling ,  and multiple neurofibromas .
schisis association describes the combination of two or more of the following anomalies: neural tube defects  ( e .g .
polyneuropathy associated with igm monoclonal gammapathy  ( mg )  with anti - mag  ( myelin - associated - glycoprotein )  activity is a demyelinating polyneuropathy characterized clinically by sensory ataxia ,  tremor ,  paresthesia ,  and impaired gait .
multifocal motor neuropathy  ( mmn )  is a rare acquired immune - mediatedneuropathy characterized clinically by a purely motor deficit with conduction block and asymmetric multifocal weakness ,  fasciculations ,  and cramping .
acrofacial dysostosis ,  kennedy - teebi type was reported as a new type of acrofacial dysostosis due to the presence of manifestations not usually seen in nager syndrome  ( ns )  such as microcephaly ,  blepharophimosis ,  microtia ,  a peculiar beakednose ,  cleft lip and palate ,  symmetrical involvement of the thumbs and great toes and developmental delay .
npc is a complex lipid storage disease mainly characterized by the accumulation of unesterified cholesterol in the late endosomal / lysosomal compartment .
tolosa - hunt syndrome is an ophthalmoplegic syndrome ,  affecting all age groups ,  characterized by acute attacks  ( lasting a few days to a few weeks )  of periorbital pain ,  ipsilateral ocular motor nerve palsies ,  ptosis ,  disordered eye movements and blurred vision usually caused by a non - specific inflammatory process in the cavernous sinus and superior orbital fissure .
an infection that is caused by bartonella bacilliformis ,  which is transmitted to humans from infected sandflies .
a rare ,  benign ,  inflammatory breast disease occurring in premenopausal women shortly after a recent pregnancy .
iridocorneal endothelial  ( ice )  syndrome describes a group of progressive corneal proliferative endotheliopathies comprised of chandler syndrome ,  cogan - reese syndrome and essential iris atrophy ,  affecting mainly young adult females and characterized by iris holes and atrophy ,  papillary distortion ,  anterior synechiae ,  corneal edema and often with secondary glaucoma and corneal decompensation as complications
recurrent acute pancreatitis  ( rap )  is characterized by repeated attacks of acute pancreatitis  ( ap )  ,  which is defined as an acute inflammatory process of the pancreas with variable involvement of other regional tissues or remote organ systems .
hepatoportal sclerosis  ( hps )  is a rare disorder characterized by sclerosis of the intrahepatic portal veins ,  non - cirrhotic portal hypertension ,  asymptomatic splenomegaly and recurrent variceal bleeding .
riedel thyroiditis is a fibroinflammatory disorder of the thyroid gland ,  occuring more frequently in females ,  characterized a large ,  hard thyroid mass ,  and presenting with pressure symptoms  ( breathing difficulb , ties and dysphagia )  or voice hoarseness and aphonia  ( impingement of recurrent laryngeal nerve )  .
a charcot - marie - tooth disease characterized by abnormalities in the axon of the peripheral nerve cell .
a subtype of charcot - marie - tooth disease with genetic defects on the x chromosome .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 4  ( cmt4 )  belongs to the genetically heterogeneous group of cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy diseases .
ataxia with oculomotor apraxia type 2  ( aoa2 )  is a rare autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia  ( arca )  ,  characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia associated with frequent oculomotor apraxia ,  severe neuropathy and an elevated serum alpha - fetoprotein  ( afp )  level .
noonan syndrome  ( ns )  is characterised by short stature ,  typical facial dysmorphism and congenital heart defects .
leber congenital amaurosis  ( lca )  is a retinal dystrophy defined by blindness and responses to electrophysiological stimulation  ( ganzfeld electroretinogram  ( erg )  )  below threshold ,  associated with severe visual impairment within the first year of life .
lcat  ( lecithin - cholesterol acyltransferase )  deficiency is a rare lipoprotein metabolism disorder characterized clinically by corneal opacities ,  and sometimes renal failure and hemolytic anemia ,  and biochemically by severely reduced hdl cholesterol .
perineural  ( or tarlov )  cysts are cerebrospinal fluid - filled nerve root cysts most commonly found at the sacral level of the spine ,  although they can be found in any section of the spine ,  which can cause progressively painful radiculopathy .
lhermitte - duclos disease  ( ldd )  is a very rare disorder characterized by abnormal development and enlargement of the cerebellum ,  and an increased intracranial pressure .
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2  ( men2 )  is a multiple endocrine neoplasia ,  a polyglandular cancer syndrome characterized by the occurrence of medullary thyroid carcinoma  ( mtc )  ,  pheochromocytoma  ( pcc )  ,  in one variant ,  primary hyperparathyroidism  ( phpt )  .
an embryonal pediatric tumor of the kidney which may also be seen rarely in adults .
progressive tubulointerstitial injury ,  inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern ,  caused by mutations in genes involved in ciliary function ,  which may result in an end stage renal failure .
familial idiopathic steroid - resistant nephrotic syndrome is characterized by a nephrotic syndrome with often early onset .
benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis  ( bric )  is a hereditary liver disorder characterized by intermittent episodes of intrahepatic cholestasis ,  generally without progression to chronic liver damage .
isolated focal cortical dysplasia is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic cerebral malformation due to abnormal neuronal migration disorder characterized by variable - sized ,  focalized malformations located in any part ( s )  of the cerebral cortex ,  which manifests with drug - resistant epilepsy  ( usually leading to intellectual disability )  and behavioral disturbances .
congenital isolated hyperinsulinism  ( chi )  ,  a rare endocrine disease is the most frequent cause of severe and persistent hypoglycemia in the neonatal period and early infancy and is characterized by an excessive or uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  and recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia requiring rapid and intensive treatment to prevent neurological sequelae .
charcot - marie - tooth disease type 1  ( cmt1 )  is a group of autosomal dominant demyelinating peripheral neuropathies characterized by distal weakness and atrophy ,  sensory loss ,  foot deformities ,  and slow nerve conduction velocity .
an extremely rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by premature closure of cranial sutures leading to cone - shaped head ,  fusion of the digits ,  and the presence of more digits than normal .
angioedema is characterized by the occurrence of transitory and recurrent subcutaneous and / or submucosal edemas resulting in swelling and / or abdominal pain .
mutilating palmoplantar keratoderma  ( ppk )  with periorificial keratotic plaques  ( also known as olmsted syndrome )  is a hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma characterized by the combination of bilateral mutilating transgredient palmoplantar keratoderma and periorificial keratotic plaques .
omphalocele is an embryopathy classified in the group of abdominal celosomias and is characterized by a large hernia of the abdominal wall ,  centered on the umbilical cord ,  in which the protruding viscera are protected by a sac .
short fifth metacarpals - insulin resistance syndrome is characterised by bilateral shortening of the fifth fingers and fifth metacarpals .
takotsubo cardiomyopathy  ( tc )  is a recently described acute cardiac syndrome that mimics acute myocardial infarction and is characterized by ischemic chest symptoms ,  an elevated st segment on electrocardiogram ,  and elevated levels of cardiac disease markers .
osteogenesis imperfecta  ( oi )  comprises a heterogeneous group of genetic disorders characterized by increased bone fragility ,  low bone mass ,  and susceptibility to bone fractures with variable severity .
pandas is an acronym for pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with a group a beta - hemolytic streptococcal infection and applied to a subgroup of children with obsessive - compulsive disorder  ( ocd )  and / or tic disorders .
sensorineural hearing loss - early graying - essential tremor syndrome is characterised by the combination of sensorineural hearing loss ,  early greying of scalp hair and adult onset essential tremor .
cutaneous mastocytosis is a term referring to a group of diseases characterized by abnormal accumulation and proliferation of skin mastocytes .
a rare entity characterized by localized but destructive growth of a tumor consisting of highly atypical ,  immature mast cells .
a localized tumor consisting of mature mast cells .
an autosomal recessive form of osteopetrosis caused by mutation ( s )  in at least 8 genes related to osteoclast function .
otopalatodigital  ( opd )  syndrome is a form of frontootopalatodigital syndrome ,  characterized by deafness ,  cleft palate ,  and characteristic digital anomalies .
a parasitic disease caused by the protozoa ,  entamoeba histolytica ,  mainly occurring in tropical regions after the ingestion of an amoebic cyst ,  and resulting in clinical manifestations that may range from an asymptomatic state to amoebic colitis  ( violent abdominal pain ,  a painful contracted feeling around the anal sphincter ,  blood and mucus in the stools but without the presence of fever )  ,  or amoebic liver abscesses  ( fever ,  chills ,  abdominal pain ,  weight loss ,  hepatomegaly )  that can be fatal if not immediately treated .
segmental odontomaxillary dysplasia  ( sod )  is a rare disorder characterized by unilateral enlargement of the right or left maxillary alveolar bone and gingiva in the region from the back of the canines to the maxillary tuberosity .
thrombocytopenia with congenital dyserythropoietic anemia  ( cda )  is a rare hematological disorder ,  seen almost exclusively in males ,  characterized by moderate to severe thrombocytopenia with hemorrhages with or without the presence of mild to severe anemia .
cutis verticis gyrata  ( cvg )  is a progressive cutaneous disorder predominantly affecting males and characterized by hypertrophy and thickening of the skin of the scalp forming convoluted furrows with deep ,  tender ,  and cerebriform cutaneous folds .
accessory pancreas is an asymptomatic embryopathy characterized by the presence of pancreatic tissue in other sites of the body such as the splenic pedicle ,  gonadic pedicles ,  intestinal mesentery ,  duodenum wall ,  upper jejunum ,  or ,  more rarely ,  the gastric wall ,  ileum ,  gallbladder or spleen .
pancreatoblastoma is a rare malignant epithelial pancreatic neoplasm ,  most often found in children ,  which usually presents with the non - specific symptoms of a palpable mass ,  vomiting abdominal pain ,  jaundice ,  and weight loss / failure to thrive ,  and is characterized histologically by multiple lines of differentiation  ( acinar ,  ductal ,  mesenchymal ,  neuroendocrine )  and the presence of squamoid nests .
free - living amebae belonging to the genera acanthamoeba ,  balamuthia ,  naegleria and sappinia are important causes of disease in humans and animals .
progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  is a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease characterized by supranuclear gaze palsy ,  postural instability ,  progressive rigidity ,  and mild dementia .
clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material  ( either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment )  .
a rare form of sleep disorder .
leukodystrophies are a group of rare ,  progressive ,  metabolic ,  genetic diseases that affect the brain ,  spinal cord and often the peripheral nerves .
any of the forms of hearing loss that have a rare incidence .
any of the forms of vascular disease that have a rare incidence .
rare dystonia .
an inherited disorder characterized by structural alterations of a globin chain within the hemoglobin molecule .
rare inherited disorders resulting from an enzyme defect in biochemical and metabolic pathways affecting proteins ,  fats ,  carbohydrates metabolism or organelle function .
a group of congenital disorders of lipid metabolism ,  caused by loss of the normal peroxisomes .
any disease that impairs the functioning of the muscles ,  either directly ,  being pathologies of the voluntary muscle ,  or indirectly ,  being pathologies of nerves or neuromuscular junctions
rare parkinsonian disorder .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant neoplasm involving the bone or articular cartilage .
rare infectious disease .
hereditary spastic paraplegias  ( hsp )  comprise a genetically and clinically heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive spasticity and hyperreflexia of the lower limbs .
a disorder characterized by the localized or diffuse accumulation of amyloid protein in various anatomic sites .
brachydactyly  ( 'short digits' )  is a general term that refers to disproportionately short fingers and toes ,  and forms part of the group of limb malformations characterized by bone dysostosis .
steroid - sensitive nephrotic syndrome  ( ssns )  is a kidney disease defined by selective proteinuria ,  hypoalbuminaemia and ,  on renal biopsy ,  minimal changes without immunoglobulin deposits .
congenital membranous nephropathy due to maternal anti - neutral endopeptidase  ( nep )  alloimmunization  ( cmnepa )  is a glomerular disease characterized by severe renal failure and nephrotic syndrome at birth ,  which rapidly improve in the first weeks of life .
pure hair and nail ectodermal dysplasia is characterised by the association of onychodystrophy and severe hypotrichosis ,  which is mainly limited to the scalp but may also affect the eyelashes and eyebrows .
intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy  ( icp )  is a cholestatic disorder characterized by  ( i )  pruritus with onset in the second or third trimester of pregnancy ,   ( ii )  elevated serum aminotransferases and bile acid levels ,  and  ( iii )  spontaneous relief of signs and symptoms within two to three weeks after delivery .
bilateral acute depigmentation of the iris  ( badi )  is characterized by acute onset of bilateral iris depigmentation ,  pigment dispersion in the anterior chamber ,  and heavy pigment deposition in the anterior chamber angle .
bosley - salih - alorainy syndrome  ( bsas )  is characterized by variable horizontal gaze dysfunction ,  profound and bilateral sensorineural deafness associated commonly with severe inner ear maldevelopment ,  cerebrovascular anomalies  ( ranging from unilateral internal carotid artery hypoplasia to bilateral agenesis )  ,  cardiac malformation ,  developmental delay and occasionally autism .
circumscribed palmoplantar hypokeratosis is an ectodermal dysplasia characterised by circular ,  well - circumscribed patches of erythematous depressed skin .
a rare ,  usually solitary ,  benign epithelial tumor of the skin that appears to arise from a hair follicle .
cranio - cerebello - cardiac  ( 3c )  syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by craniofacial  ( prominent occiput and forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  ocular coloboma ,  cleft palate )  ,  cerebellar  ( dandy - walker malformation ,  cerebellar vermis hypoplasia )  and cardiac  ( tetralogy of fallot ,  atrial and ventricular septal defects )  anomalies .
proximal spinal muscular atrophies are a group of neuromuscular disorders characterized by progressive muscle weakness resulting from the degeneration and loss of the lower motor neurons in the spinal cord and the brain stem nuclei .
alopecia totalis is a form of alopecia areata ,  an inflammatory disease of the hair follicle ,  characterized by a complete loss of hair of the entire scalp which becomes glabrous .
bullous pemphigoid  ( bp )  is the most common form of autoimmune bullous dermatosis .
radiation proctitis is a rare rectal disease directly induced by pelvic radiotherapy and characterized by rectal bleeding ,  change in bowel habits ,  tenesmus and sepsis .
vernal keratoconjunctivitis  ( vkc )  is a chronic ,  severe allergy that affectsthe surfaces of the eyes .
esophageal carcinoma  ( ec )  is a tumor arising in the epithelial cells lining the esophagus and can be divided into two subtypes: esophageal squamous cell carcinoma  ( escc )  and esophageal adenocarcinoma  ( eac )  .
a carcinoma that arises from the intrahepatic biliary tree  ( intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma )  or from the junction ,  or adjacent to the junction ,  of the right and left hepatic ducts  ( hilar cholangiocarcinoma )  .
post - transplant lymphoproliferative disorder  ( ptld )  is a polyclonal  ( benign )  or clonal  ( malignant )  proliferation of lymphoid cells that develops as a consequence of immunosuppression in a recipient of a solid organ or bone marrow allograft .
bronchopulmonary dysplasia is a chronic respiratory disease that results from complications related to lung injury during the treatment of infant acute respiratory distress syndrome in low - birth - weight premature infants or from abnormal lung development in older infants .
infantile apnea is a cessation of respiratory air flow that may affect newborns or older children because of neurological impairment of the respiratory rhythm or obstruction of air flow through the air passages .
immunodeficiency due to selective anti - polysaccharide antibody deficiency is characterized by normal immunoglobulin levels  ( including igg sub - classes )  but impaired polysaccharide responsiveness  ( ipr )  .
congenital epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  infection causes no clinical manifestations in the majority of infants .
plague is a severe bacterial infection caused by the gram - negative bacterium yersinia pestis .
rare pulmonary hypertension .
a hemorrhagic disorder due to a platelet anomaly which occurs from birth .
an autoimmune form of thrombocytopenia .
any of the forms of soft tissue neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
neuromyelitis optica  ( nmo )  and nmo spectrum disorders are inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system characterized mainly by attacks of uni -  or bilateral optic neuritis  ( on )  and acute myelitis .
retinal cavernous hemangioma is a rare ,  benign ,  usually unilateral retinal vascular hamartoma that in most cases is asymptomatic but in some patients may present with blurred vision or floaters and that is characterized by the presence of grape - like vacuoles .
dentinogenesis imperfecta - short stature - hearing loss - intellectual disability syndrome is characterised by the association of dentinogenesis imperfecta ,  delayed tooth eruption ,  facial dysmorphology ,  small stature ,  sensorineural hearing loss and mild intellectual deficit .
benign exophthalmos syndrome is characterised by slowly progressive unilateral exophthalmos and ipsilateral mucosal turbinate hypertrophy ,  without intraorbital or intranasal lesions .
sandifer syndrome is a paroxysmal dystonic movement disorder occurring in association with gastro - oesophageal reflux ,  and ,  in some cases ,  hiatal hernia .
1 mmhg )  .the thin septae between the veins and the collecting system in the renal fornices rupture ,  with resultant left sided haematuria .
the rh deficiency syndrome ,  also known as rh - null syndrome ,  is a blood disorder where people have red blood cells  ( rbcs )  lacking all rh antigens .
silent sinus syndrome is characterised by adult - onset progressive enophthalmos due to collapse of some or all of the maxillary sinus walls .
canomad syndrome  ( chronic ataxic neuropathy ,  ophthalmoplegia ,  monoclonal igm protein ,  cold agglutinins and disialosyl antibodies )  is a rare chronic immune - mediated demyelinating polyneuropathy .
familial thrombocytosis is a type of thrombocytosis ,  a sustained elevation of platelet numbers ,  which affects the platelet / megakaryocyte lineage and may create a tendency for thrombosis and hemorrhage but does not cause myeloproliferation .
cancer associated retinopathy  ( car )  is a paraneoplastic disease of the eye associated with the presence of extraocular malignancy and circulating autoantibodies against retinal proteins .
benign paroxysmal torticollis of infancy  ( bpti )  is a rare functional disorder characterised by recurrent episodes of torticollic posturing of the head  ( inclination or tilting of the head to one side )  in healthy children .
psychogenic movement disorders  ( pmd )  are movement disorders that cannot be attributed to any known structural or neurochemical diseases ,  but represent the manifestation of an underlying psychiatric illness or malingering .
melanocortin 4 receptor  ( mc4r )  deficiency is the commonest form of monogenic obesity identified so far .
catecholamine - producing tumors may arise in the adrenal medulla  ( pheochromocytomas )  or in extraadrenal chromaffin cells  ( secreting paragangliomas )  .
an instance of nervous system disease that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of retinal degeneration that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a channelopathy that involves the muscle tissue .
pili bifurcati is an uncommon transitory hair shaft dysplasia characterized by segmental duplication of the hair shaft: a ramification generates two parallel branches which fuse to form a single shaft again .
human pneumocystosis is caused by an infectious agent ,  which  ( after recent nomenclature and taxonomy revisions )  is now classed as the fungus pneumocystis jiroveci .
idiopathic acute eosinophilic pneumonia  ( iaep )  is an eosinophilic pneumonia of undetermined etiology that is characterized by acute febrile hypoxic respiratory failure associated with diffuse radiographic infiltrates and pulmonary eosinophilia ,  but without concurring allergy or infection .
continuous spikes and waves during sleep  ( csws )  is a rare epileptic encephalopathy of childhood characterized by seizures ,  an electroencephalographic  ( eeg )  pattern of electrical status epilepticus in sleep  ( eses )  and neurocognitive regression in at least 2 domains of development .
microscopic polyangiitis  ( mpa )  is an inflammatory ,  necrotizing ,  systemic vasculitis that affects predominantly small vessels  ( i .e .
relapsing polychondritis  ( rp )  is a rare ,  clinically heterogeneous ,  multisystemic inflammatory disease characterized by inflammation of the cartilage and proteoglycan rich structures leading to cartilage damage with joint ,  ocular and cardiovascular involvement .
intractable diarrhoea of infancy  ( idi )  is a heterogeneous syndrome that includes several diseases with different aetiologies .
polymyositis  ( pm )  is a rare idiopathic inflammatory myopathy characterized by symmetric proximal muscle weakness and elevated muscle enzymes .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of global developmental delay ,  osteopenia and skin anomalies .
tubular renal disease - cardiomyopathy syndrome is characterised by hypokalaemic metabolic alkalosis secondary to a tubulopathy ,  hypomagnesaemia with hypermagnesuria ,  severe hypercalciuria and dilated cardiomyopathy .
ossification anomalies - psychomotor developmental delay syndrome is characterised by hypomineralisation of the cranial bones ,  thoracic dystrophy ,  hypotonia ,  and abnormal and slender long bones due to an alteration in remodelling during ossification .
visceral neuropathy - brain anomalies - facial dysmorphism - developmental delay syndrome is characterised by facial dysmorphology ,  neuropathic visceral dysmotility ,  neurogenic megacystis ,  intracerebral calcifications and developmental delay .
central neurocytoma is a very rare brain tumor of young adults  ( over 100 cases reported worldwide )  .
any infection due to a fungus of the zygomycota phylum .
non - 24 - hour sleep - wake disorder  ( non - 24 disorder )  ,  also known as hypernychthemeral syndrome ,  is a circadian rhythm sleep disorder characterized by non - synchronization to a 24 - hour day leading to insomnia and daytime sleepiness with sometimes severe associated manifestations .
acquired hemophilia a  ( aha )  is a rare , often severe ,  hematological autoimmune disorder characterized by spontaneous hemorrhages into the skin ,  muscles ,  soft tissues , or mucous membranes .
acute ackee fruit intoxication  ( also referred to as jamaican vomiting syndrome or sickness )  is caused by the ingestion of unripe blighia sapida fruits .
porokeratosis of mibelli  ( pm )  is a form of porokeratosis that is characterized by the presence of brown single or multiple annular plaques of varying size ,  that are sometimes confluent ,  with a distinctive sharply - defined keratotic border .
porphyrias constitute a group of eight hereditary metabolic diseases characterized by intermittent neuro - visceral manifestations ,  cutaneous lesions or by the combination of both .
a foodborne zoonotic disease ,  endemic to southeast asia and the pacific islands ,  caused by the rat lungworm angiostrongylus cantonensis and that is acquired by the ingestion of the infective larvae on vegetables or in raw or undercooked snails ,  slugs ,  land crabs ,  freshwater shrimps ,  frogs and lizards .
congenital protein s deficiency is an inherited coagulation disorder characterized by recurrent venous thrombosis symptoms due to reduced synthesis and / or activity levels of protein s .
congenital protein c deficiency is an inherited coagulation disorder characterized by deep venous thrombosis symptoms due to reduced synthesis and / or activity levels of protein c .
mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  is a rare immunodeficiency syndrome ,  characterized by a narrow vulnerability to poorly virulent mycobacteria ,  such as bacillus calmette - guerin  ( bcg )  vaccines and environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  ,  and defined by severe ,  recurrent infections ,  either disseminated or localized .
the infection of a fly larva  ( maggot )  in human tissue ,  which most commonly occurs in tropical climates .
wolman disease represents the most severe manifestation of lysosomal acid lipase deficiency .
cholesteryl ester storage disease  ( cesd )  is a very rare ,  late - onset ,  genetic endocrine disease characterized by deficient or inactive lysosomal acid lipase  ( lal )  causing lipid build - up ,  which leads to atherosclerosis ,  hepatomegaly ,  splenomegaly ,  progressive liver disease ,  and malabsorption .
familial restrictive cardiomyopathy is a genetic form of heart disease ,  in which the heart muscle is stiff and cannot fully relax after each contraction .
oligocone trichromacy is a rare non - progressive form of cone photoreceptor dysfunction characterised by reduced visual acuity ,  normal retinal appearance ,  absent or reduced cone responses on electroretinography but normal colour vision .
oguchi disease is an autosomal recessive retinal disorder characterized by congenital stationary night blindness and the mizuo - nakamura phenomenon .
goossens - devriendt syndrome is characterised by intrauterine growth retardation ,  a congenital heart defect ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  a brain malformation ,  abnormal hair with temporal balding ,  and marked facial dysmorphism .
androgen insensitivity syndrome  ( ais )  is a disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  characterized by the presence of female external genitalia ,  ambiguous genitalia or variable defects in virilization in a 46 , xy individual with absent or partial responsiveness to age - appropriate levels of androgens .
leydig cell hypoplasia  ( lch )  is a condition in males that affects sexual development .
angioosteohypotrophic syndrome is a rare ,  congenital ,  vascular anomaly syndrome characterized by venous or ,  on occasion ,  arterial malformations which lead to soft tissue hypertrophy and bone hypoplasia .
acquired idiopathic sideroblastic anaemia is one of a group of disorders known as the myelodysplastic syndromes  ( mds )  characterised by ineffective haemopoiesis affecting one or more blood cell lineages  ( myeloid ,  erythroid or megakaryocytic )  leading to peripheral blood cytopenias and an increased risk of developing leukaemia .
tropical endomyocardial fibrosis is a restrictive cardiopathy ,  occuring almost exclusively in children and young adults in tropical and subtropical regions ,  characterized by endocardial fibrosis ,  affecting the apices and the inflow tract of the right or left ventricle  ( or both )  and manifesting with a restrictive cardimyopathy and atrioventricular regurgitation leading to severe pulmonary hypertension ,  very high systemic venous pressure and congestive cardiac failure .
loeffler's endocarditis is a rare restrictive cardiomyopathy characterized by hypereosinophilia and fibrous thickening of the endocardium ,  with usually large thrombi against the ventricle walls ,  that can lead to cardiovascular complications such as heart failure and thromboembolism .
primary progressive freezing gait is a rare ,  heterogeneous ,  progressively incapacitating neurodegenerative disease characterized by freezing of gait  ( usually during the first 3 years )  ,  later associating postural instability ,  eventually resulting in a wheelchair - bound state .
pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1  ( pha1 )  is a primary form of mineralocorticoid resistance presenting in the newborn with renal salt wasting ,  failure to thrive and dehydration .
pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2  ( pha2 )  is a rare inherited form of hypertension characterized by hyperkalemia ,  hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis ,  normal or elevated aldosterone ,  low renin ,  and normal renal function .
6q terminal deletion syndrome is marked by a characteristic facial dysmorphism ,  short neck and psychomotor retardation ,  generally associated with a range of non - specific malformations .
central precocious puberty  ( cpp )  ,  also referred to as gonadotropin dependent precocious puberty ,  is an endocrine - related developmental disease characterized by the onset of pubertal changes ,  with development of secondary sexual characteristics and accelerated growth and bone maturation ,  before the normal age of puberty  ( 8 years in girls and 9 years in boys )  .
schc6nlein - henoch purpura  ( shp )  is a systemic iga vasculitis that affects small vessels .
pyomyositis  ( pm )  is a rare primary bacterial infection of the skeletal muscle ,  usually resulting from hematogenous spread or due to muscle injury ,  and characterized by pain and tenderness in the affected muscle ,  fever and abscess formation .
pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency  ( pdhd )  is a rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by a wide range of clinical signs with metabolic and neurological components of varying severity .
polyarteritis nodosa  ( pan )  is a rare ,  clinically heterogeneous ,  rheumatologic disease characterized by necrotizing inflammatory lesions affecting small -  and medium - sized blood vessels .
congenital long qt syndrome  ( lqts )  is a hereditary cardiac disease characterized by a prolongation of the qt interval at basal ecg and by a high risk of life - threatening arrhythmias .
aniridia is a congenital ocular malformation characterized by the complete or partial absence of the iris .
rabies is a viral zoonosis leading to a fatal encephalopathy if not treated .
infantile refsum disease  ( ird )  is the mildest variant of the peroxisome biogenesis disorders ,  zellweger syndrome spectrum  ( pbd -  zss )  ,  characterized by hypotonia ,  retinitis pigmentosa ,  developmental delay ,  sensorineural hearing loss and liver dysfunction .
a congenital condition that results in swelling in the arms or legs ,  and can occur during adolescence or adulthood .
trichorhinophalangeal syndromes  ( trps )  type 1 and 3 are malformation syndromes characterized by short stature ,  sparse hair ,  a bulbous nasal tip and cone - shaped epiphyses ,  as well as severe generalized shortening of all phalanges ,  metacarpals and metatarsal bones .
leukodystrophy with oligodontia is characterised by progressive ataxia beginning during infancy ,  a pyramidal syndrome and dental agenesis .
the association of auricular abnormalities and cleft lip with or without cleft palate has been described in two siblings .
interstitial 9q22 .3 microdeletion is associated with a phenotype including macrocephaly ,  overgrowth and trigonocephaly .
rendu - osler - weber disease ,  also called hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia  ( hht )  ,  is a disorder of angiogenesis leading to arteriovenous dilatations: cutaneo - mucosal hemorrhagic telangiectasias and visceral shunting .
nonspecific x - linked intellectual deficiencies  ( mrx )  belong to the family of sex - linked intellectual deficiencies  ( xlmr )  .
a bacterial infection caused by coxiella burnetii .
axenfeld - rieger syndrome  ( ars )  is a generic term used to designate overlapping genetic disorders ,  in which the major physical condition is anterior segment dysgenesis of the eye .
rubinstein - taybi syndrome is a rare malformation syndrome characterized by congenital anomalies  ( microcephaly ,  specific facial characteristics ,  broad thumbs and halluces and postnatal growth retardation )  ,  short stature ,  intellectual disability and behavioural characteristics .
juvenile polyposis of infancy  ( jpi )  is the most severe form of juvenile gastrointestinal polyposis and is characterized by pancolonic hamartomatous polyposis from stomach to rectum ,  diagnosed in the first two years of life .
igg4 - related dacryoadenitis and sialoadenitis  ( mikulicz disease )  is an igg4 - related sclerosing disease characterized by persistent ,  usually painless ,  bilateral enlargement of the lacrimal ,  parotid ,  and submandibular glands associated with elevated levels of serum immunoglobulin  ( ig )  g4 and with lymphocyte and igg4 - positive plasmacyte infiltration .
acquired generalized lipodystrophy belongs to a group of lipodystrophic syndromes characterized by loss of adipose tissue ,  and is a syndrome of insulin resistance that leads to increased cardiovascular risk .
localised lipodystrophies are characterised by loss of subcutaneous tissue from small regions of the body .
hereditary inclusion body myopathy type 3 is characterised by congenital joint contractures  ( normalizing during early childhood )  ,  external ophthalmoplegia ,  and proximal muscle weakness .
foix - alajouanine syndrome ,  also called subacute ascending necrotising myelitis ,  results from chronic congestion of the extrinsic pial veins of the spinal cord and of the intrinsic subpial network .
folinic acid - responsive seizures is a very rare neonatal epileptic encephalopathy disorder characterized clinically by myoclonic and clonic ,  or clonic seizures associated with apnea occurring several hours to 5 days after birth and responding to folinic acid .
sympathetic ophthalmia  ( so )  is a bilateral granulomatous anterior uveitis usually occurring within the three months following trauma or a surgical procedure involving one eye .
interstitial granulomatous dermatitis with arthritis is a rare rheumatologic disease characterized by the occurrence of inflammatory arthritis in association with large ,  erythematous ,  symmetrical cutaneous lesions  ( ranging from typical ,  but infrequent ,  cord - like lesions on the flanks to more common violaceous plaques on the trunk and limbs )  featuring a typical histologic infiltrate mainly constituted of histiocytes .
retinitis pigmentosa  ( rp )  is an inherited retinal dystrophy leading to progressive loss of the photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelium and resulting in blindness usually after several decades .
thyrotoxic periodic paralysis  ( tpp )  is a rare neurological disease characterized by recurrent episodes of paralysis and hypokalemia during a thyrotoxic state .
a malignant fibroblastic neoplasm arising from the soft tissue .
acute interstitial pneumonia  ( aip )  ,  also referred to as hamman - rich syndrome ,  is a rapidly progressive and histologically distinct form of idiopathic interstitial pneumonia .
respiratory bronchiolitis  -  interstitial lung disease is a mild inflammatory pulmonary disorder developed by cigarette smokers and characterized by shortness of breath and cough ,  pulmonary function abnormalities of mixed restrictive and obstructive lung disease and high resolution ct scanning showing centrilobular micronodules ,  ground glass opacities and peribronchiolar thickening .
the association of amelogenesis imperfecta and a microscopically typical hair dysplasia has been found in several members of a family in two generations .
sparse hair - short stature - skin anomalies syndrome combines short stature ,  sparse hair ,  skin hyperpigmentation and urticaria - like reactions on the hands and arms .
dend syndrome is a very rare ,  generally severe form of neonatal diabetes mellitus  ( ndm )  characterized by a triad of developmental delay ,  epilepsy ,  and neonatal diabetes .
bickerstaff's brainstem encephalitis  ( bbe )  is a rare post - infectious neurological disease characterized by the association of external ophthalmoplegia ,  ataxia ,  lower limb arreflexia ,  extensor plantar response and disturbance of consciousness  ( drowsiness ,  stupor or coma )  .
a disease due to a virus transmitted by an arthropod )  .
cutaneous neuroendocrine carcinoma is a primary cutaneous cancer arising from a subset of skin neuroendocrine cells  ( merkel cells ,  giving the name merkel cell carcinoma  ( mcc )  )  .
isolated congenital anonychia is characterized by nail abnormalities ranging from onychodystrophy  ( dystrophic nails )  to anonychia  ( absence of nails )  .
disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis  ( dsap )  is the most common form of porokeratosis characterized by the presence of several small annular plaques with a distinctive keratotic rim found most commonly on sun - exposed areas of the skin ,  particularly the extremities .
a inherited organic acidemia that involves the brain .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of carbohydrate metabolic process .
anomalies of bile acid synthesis are a group of sterol metabolism disorders due to enzyme deficiencies of bile acid synthesis  ( bas )  in infants ,  children and adults ,  with variable manifestations that include cholestasis ,  neurological disease ,  and fat malabsorption .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of sulfur amino acid metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of gamma - aminobutyric acid metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of gluconeogenesis .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of glucose transport .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of glycerol metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of histidine metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of ketone body catabolic process .
peroxisome biogenesis disorders ,  zellweger syndrome spectrum  ( pbd - zss )  is a group of autosomal recessive disorders affecting the formation of functional peroxisomes ,  characterized by sensorineural hearing loss ,  pigmentary retinal degeneration ,  multiple organ dysfunction and psychomotor impairment ,  and is comprised of the phenotypic variants zellweger syndrome  ( zs )  ,  neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy  ( nald )  and infantile refsum disease  ( ird )  .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of purine nucleobase metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of pyridoxine metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of serine family amino acid metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of sterol biosynthetic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of branched - chain amino acid metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of generation of precursor metabolites and energy .
an inherited metabolic disorder in which harmful amounts of lipids accumulate in cells and tissues .
a group of inherited lysosomal storage diseases characterized by accumulation of lipids and carbohydrates in the tissues ,  resulting in mental disabilities and skeletal malformations .
a group of autosomal recessive or x - linked inherited lysosomal storage disorders affecting the metabolism of mucopolysaccharides ,  resulting in the accumulation of mucopolysaccharides in the body .
an inherited metabolic disorder that affects the lysosomal degradation of the spinhgolipids .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of sterol metabolic process .
hemochromatosis type 2  ( juvenile )  is the early - onset and most severe form of rare hereditary hemochromatosis  ( hh )  ,  a group of diseases characterized by excessive tissue iron deposition of genetic origin .
mild phenylketonuria is a rare form of phenylketouria  ( pku )  ,  an inborn error of amino acid metabolism ,  characterized by symptoms of pku of mild to moderate severity .
classical phenylketonuria is a severe form of phenylketonuria  ( pku )  an inborn error of amino acid metabolism characterized in untreated patients by severe intellectual deficit and neuropsychiatric complications .
adult neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( ancls )  are a genetically heterogeneous group of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( ncls )  with onset during the third decade of life ,  characterized by dementia ,  seizures and loss of motor capacities ,  and sometimes associated with visual loss caused by retinal degeneration .
infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis  ( incl )  is a form of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis  ( ncl )  characterized by onset during the second half of the first year of life and rapid mental and motor deterioration leading to loss of all psychomotor abilities .
juvenile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( jncls )  are a genetically heterogeneous group of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses  ( ncls )  typically characterized by onset at early school age with vision loss due to retinopathy ,  seizures and the decline of mental and motor capacities .
erythropoietic protoporphyria  ( epp )  is an inherited disorder of the heme metabolic pathway characterized by accumulation of protoporphyrin in blood ,  erythrocytes and tissues ,  and cutaneous manifestations of photosensitivity .
alpha - n - acetylgalactosaminidase  ( naga )  deficiency type 3 is a rare clinically heterogeneous type of naga deficiency with developmental ,  neurologic and psychiatric manifestations presenting at an intermediate age .
diazoxide - resistant focal hyperinsulism  ( drfh )  is a form of diazoxide - resistant hyperinsulinism characterized by recurrent episodes of profound hypoglycemia caused by an excessive /  uncontrolled insulin secretion  ( inappropriate for the level of glycemia )  due to a focal adenomatous hyperplasia of pancreas ,  that is unresponsive to medical treatment with diazoxide ,  necessitating complete excision of the focal lesion .
sapho syndrome  ( acronym for synovitis ,  acne ,  pustulosis ,  hyperostosis and osteitis )  is an auto - inflammatory disease ,  mainly characterized by the association of neutrophilic cutaneous involvement and chronic osteomyelitis .
vitamin b12 - unresponsive methylmalonic acidemia type mut -  is an inborn error of metabolism characterized by recurrent ketoacidotic comas or transient vomiting ,  dehydration ,  hypotonia and intellectual deficit ,  which does not respond to administration of vitamin b12 .
a skin disease that involves the epidermis .
disorders of cornification that are characterized by visible scaling and / or hyperkeratosis of most or all of the skin .
an instance of palmoplantar keratosis that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
inherited epidermolysis bullosa  ( eb )  encompasses a number of disorders characterized by recurrent blister formation as the result of structural fragility within the skin and selected other tissues .
excessive hair growth anywhere on the body .
a epidermal appendage anomaly that involves the nail .
a nail anomaly that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a nail anomaly that is part of a larger syndrome .
a epidermal appendage anomaly that involves the sebaceous gland .
the term ''ectodermal dysplasia'' defines a heterogeneous group of heritable disorders of the skin and its appendages characterized by the defective development of two or more ectodermal derivatives ,  including hair ,  teeth ,  nails ,  sweat glands and their modified structures  ( i .e .
a pigmentation disease that involves the zone of skin .
a condition caused by a deficiency or a loss of melanin pigmentation in the epidermis ,  also known as hypomelanosis .
a disease that involves the superficial vasculature .
a disease involving the superficial fascia .
excess fluid collection in tissues ,  causing swelling .
rare urticaria .
changes in the organism associated with senescence ,  occurring at an accelerated rate .
congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma  ( cie )  is a variant of autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis  ( arci )  ,  a rare epidermal disease ,  characterized by fine ,  whitish scales on a background of erythematous skin over the whole body .
generalized non - herlitz - type junctional epidermolysis bullosa is a form of non - herlitz - type junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb - nh )  characterized by generalized skin blistering ,  atrophic scarring ,  nail dystrophy or nail absence ,  and enamel hypoplasia ,  with extracutaneous involvement .
junctional epidermolysis bullosa inversa is a rare severe subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  characterized by blistering and erosions confined to intertriginous skin sites ,  the esophagus ,  and vagina .
late - onset junctional epidermolysis bullosa is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa  ( jeb )  occurring in childhood or young adulthood .
recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa inversa  ( rdeb - i )  is rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  characterized by blisters and erosions which are primarily confined to intertriginous skin sites ,  the base of the neck ,  the uppermost back ,  and the lumbosacral area .
woolly hair nevus  ( whn )  is a rare non - familial hair anomaly characterized by kinky ,  tightly coiled ,  and hypopigmented fine hair with an average diameter of 0 .5 cm ,  noted ,  since birth or during the first two years of life ,  in a localized circumscribed distribution on the scalp .
hermansky - pudlak syndrome  ( hsp )  is a multi - system disorder characterized by oculocutaneous albinism ,  bleeding diathesis and ,  in some cases ,  neutropenia ,  pulmonary fibrosis ,  or granulomatous colitis .
milroy disease is a frequent form of primary lymphedema characterized generally by painless ,  chronic lower - limb lymphedema found at birth or developing in the early neonatal period .
cutaneous mastocytoma is a form of cutaneous mastocytosis  ( cm )  generally characterized by the presence of a solitary or multiple hyperpigmented macules ,  plaques or nodules associated with abnormal accumulation of mast cells in the skin .
diffuse cutaneous mastocytosis  ( dcm )  is a rare form of cutaneous mastocytosis  ( cm )  characterized by generalized erythroderma ,  various degrees of blistering ,  skin with a ''peau d'orange'' appearance and the accumulation of mast cells in the skin .
maculopapular cutaneous mastocytosis  ( mcm )  is a form of cutaneous mastocytosis  ( cm )  characterized by the presence of multiple hyperpigmented macules ,  papules or nodules associated with abnormal accumulation of mast cells in the skin .
a benign wart - like ,  pigmented skin lesion appearing on various parts of the body at birth or early in childhood ,  usually in linear groupings .
a heterogeneous group of cases that are clinically diagnosed as werner syndrome  ( ws )  but do not carry wrn gene mutations .
pemphigus erythematosus is a rare superficial pemphigus disease characterized clinically by well - demarcated ,  localized ,  erythematous ,  scaly ,  hyperkeratotic ,  crusted plaques ,  with frequent butterfly distribution over the malar area of the face  ( but also commonly involving trunk and scalp ,  and less frequently the extremities ,  with a photoexposed distribution )  .
pemphigus foliaceous is a rare superficial pemphigus disease characterized by multiple ,  pruritic ,  scaly ,  crusted cutaneous erosions ,  with flaky circumscribed patches ,  localized mostly on the face ,  scalp ,  trunk and extremities ,  often presenting an erythematous base .
a lymphangioma characterized by the presence of thin - walled cavernous lymphatic spaces .
pili gemini defines a situation where the papilla's tip of a hair follicle splits during the anagen phase and consequently grows two hair shafts emerging through a single pilary canal .
punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type i  ( ppkp1 )  ,  also known as buschke - fischer - brauer syndrome ,  is a very rare hereditary skin disease characterized by irregularly distributed epidermal hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles with wide variation among patients . .
mild hyperphenylalaninemia  ( hpa )  is a rare form of phenylketonuria ,  an inborn error of amino acid metabolism ,  characterized by mild symptoms of hpa .
gardner syndrome is a severe form of familial adenomatous polyposis characterized by multiple adenomas in the colon and rectum associated with prominent extracolonic features including osteomas and multiple skin and soft tissue tumors .
an autoimmune disease characterized by blisters on the skin .
sarcoidosis is a multisystemic disorder of unknown cause characterized by the formation of immune granulomas in involved organs .
47 ,  xyy syndrome is a sex chromosome aneuploidy where males receive an additional y chromosome ,  and is characterized clinically by tall stature evident from childhood ,  macrocephaly ,  facial features  ( mild hypertelorism ,  low set ears ,  a mildly flat malar region )  ,  speech delay and an increased risk for social and emotional difficulties ,  attention deficit hyperactive disorder and autistic spectrum disorder .
scleroderma is a rare autoimmune connective tissue disorder characterized by abnormal hardening of the skin and ,  sometimes ,  other organs .
tuberous sclerosis complex  ( tsc )  is a neurocutaneous disorder characterized by multisystem hamartomas and associated with neuropsychiatric features .
a rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the atr gene ,  rbbp8 gene ,  cenpj gene ,  cep152 gene ,  cep63 gene ,  nin gene ,  dna2 gene ,  or traip gene .
antisynthetase  ( as )  syndrome is a clinically heterogeneous form of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy characterized by myositis ,  arthralgia ,  raynaud phenomenon ,  mechanic hands ,  interstitial lung disease  ( ild )  ,  and serum autoantibodies to aminoacyl transfer rna synthetases  ( anti - ars )  .
shigellosis is a bacterial infection leading to dysentery and is caused by shigella ,  which are small ,  ubiquitous gram - negative bacteria belonging to the enterobacteria family .
sialidosis type 1  ( st - 1 )  is a very rare lysosomal storage disease ,  and is the normosomatic form of sialidosis ,  characterized by gait abnormalities ,  progressive visual loss ,  bilateral macular cherry red spots and myoclonic epilepsy and ataxia ,  that usually presents in the second to third decade of life .
peeling skin syndrome  ( pss )  refers to a group of rare autosomal recessive forms of ichthyosis that is characterized clinically by superficial ,  asymptomatic ,  spontaneous peeling of the skin and histologically by a shedding of the outer layers of the epidermis .
ehlers - danlos syndrome  ( eds )  with periventricular heterotopia is a newly described variant of eds .
sotos syndrome is a rare multisystemic genetic disorder characterized by a typical facial appearance ,  overgrowth of the body in early life with macrocephaly ,  and mild to severe intellectual disability .
hereditary spherocytosis is a congenital hemolytic anemia with a wide clinical spectrum  ( from symptom - free carriers to severe hemolysis )  characterized by anemia ,  variable jaundice ,  splenomegaly and cholelithiasis .
a spina bifida  ( disease )  that is not part of a larger syndrome .
stargardt disease ,  also known as stargardt 1  ( stgd1 )  ,  is an autosomal recessive form of retinal dystrophy that is usually characterized by a progressive loss of central vision associated with irregular macular and perimacular yellow - white fundus flecks ,  and a so - called ''beaten bronze'' atrophic central macular lesion .
stickler syndrome is an inherited vitreoretinopathy characterized by the association of ocular signs with more or less complete forms of pierre - robin sequence ,  bone disorders ,  and sensorineural deafness  ( 10% of cases )  .
adult - onset still disease  ( aosd )  is a rare inflammatory multisystem disorder characterized clinically by fever of unknown origin ,  arthralgia or arthritis ,  hyperleucocytosis ,  and typical skin rash .
14mm )  ,  predisposing the individual to symptomatic neural compression ,  such as cramps ,  paresthesias ,  pain ,  muscle hypertonia and weakness ,  myelopathy and sphincter disturbances .
encephalopathy due to sulfite oxidase deficiency is a rare neurometabolic disorder characterized by seizures ,  progressive encephalopathy and lens dislocation .
rocky mountain spotted fever refers to an infection caused by the bacterium rickettsia rickettsia .
a gram - negative bacterial infection caused by rickettsia prowazekii .
pseudotyphus of california is a rare ,  flea - borne rickettsial disease caused by a rickettsia felis infection .
scrub typhus is a rare dust mite - borne infectious disease caused by the orientia tsutsugamushi bacterium and characterized clinically by an eruptive fever which is potentially serious .
free sialic acid storage disease  ( free sasd )  ,  is a group of lysosomal storage diseases characterized by a spectrum of clinical manifestations including neurological and developmental disorders with severity ranging from the milder phenotype ,  salla disease  ( sd )  ,  to the most severe phenotype ,  infantile free sialic acid storage disease  ( issd )  .
regional odontodysplasia  ( rod )  is a localized developmental anomaly of the dental tissues .
florid cemento - osseous dysplasia  ( fcod )  is a rare fibro - osseous lesion in the jaw that predominantly affects middle - aged women of african descent .
complex regional pain syndrome  ( crps )  is a rare neurologic disease painful progressive condition that corresponds to a group of disorders characterized by a disproportionate spontaneous or stimulus - induced pain ,  accompanied by a variably mixed myriad of autonomic and motor disorders including symptoms such as swelling ,  allodynia ,  skin blood supply and trophic disturbances .
narcolepsy without cataplexy is characterized by excessive day - time sleepiness associated with uncontrollable sleep urges and sometimes paralysis at sleep ,  hypnagogic hallucinations and automatic behavior .
a solitary bone cyst is a benign non - epithelial bone cavity that is asymptomatic and that is found most commonly in the second decade of life by chance .
desmoplastic small round cell tumor  ( dsrct )  is an aggressive soft tissue cancer that typically arises in serous lined surfaces of the abdominal or pelvic peritoneum ,  and spreads to the omentum ,  lymph nodes and hematogenously disseminates especially to the liver .
camos syndrome is characterised by the association of a non - progressive congenital ataxia ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  optic atrophy and structural anomalies of the skin vessels .
megalencephaly - polymicrogyria - postaxial polydactyly - hydrocephalus syndrome is characterized by megalencephaly ,  polymicrogyria ,  and hydrocephalus with variable polydactyly .
an acute arboviral infection caused by a virus of the flaviviridae family transmitted by an infected mosquito ,  that is asymptomatic in the majority of cases but that can present in rare occasions with mild flulike symptoms such as low - grade fever ,  arthralgia ,  myalgia ,  and / or rash ,  or with neurologic manifestations including meningitis ,  encephalitis with mental confusion or disorientation ,  tremors and acute flaccid paralysis / poliomyelitis .
mycoplasma encephalitis is a rare infectious encephalitis characterized by an acute onset of neurological signs and symptoms  ( e .g .
la crosse encephalitis  ( ce )  is an acute arboviral infection caused by the la crosse bunyavirus transmitted by an infected mosquito ,  usually observed in infants ,  children or adolescents  ( 6 months to 16 years )  ,  and characterized by the onset of flulike symptoms such as fever ,  chills ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  headache ,  and abdominal pain ,  followed by the onset of encephalitis characterized by somnolence ,  obtundation ,  and even seizures ,  focal neurologic signs  ( asymmetrical reflexes or babinski signs )  ,  paralysis or even coma .
an acute arboviral infection caused by an alphavirus of the togaviridae family transmitted by an infected mosquito ,  that more frequently affects children and that is characterized by the presence of mild flulike symptoms  ( fever ,  chills ,  headache ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  and anorexia )  but that can progress to weakness ,  altered mental status ,  photophobia ,  mental confusion ,  seizures ,  somnolence ,  coma and / or even death .
acute disseminated encephalomyelitis  ( adem )  is a demyelinating disorder of the central nervous system .
a form of encephalitis ,  the etiology of which is uncertain ,  that is characterized by lethargy and headache .
a neurological disorder arising from primary rubella infection of the brain ,  characterized by chronic encephalitis .
macrostomia - preauricular tags - external ophthalmoplegia syndrome combines macrostomia or abnormal mouth contour ,  preauricular tags ,  uni -  or bilateral ptosis and external ophthalmoplegia .
pelvis is an acronym defining the association of perineal hemangioma ,  external genitalia malformations ,  lipomyelomeningocele ,  vesicorenal abnormalities ,  imperforate anus ,  and skin tag .
susac syndrome  ( ss )  is a rare disorder characterized by the triad of central nervous system  ( cns )  dysfunction ,  branch retinal artery occlusions  ( braos )  and sensorineural hearing loss  ( snhl )  .
fanconi anemia  ( fa )  is a hereditary dna repair disorder characterized by progressive pancytopenia with bone marrow failure ,  variable congenital malformations and predisposition to develop hematological or solid tumors .
a benign adnexal neoplasm occurring during childhood or adolescence .
idiopathic malabsorption due to increased acid bile synthesis is an intestinal disease of unknown etiology characterized by an overproduction of bile acids which leads to chronic watery diarrhea .
boichis syndrome consists of the association of congenital nephronophthisis leading to renal failure ,  and hepatic fibrosis .
hinman syndrome  ( hs )  or non - neurogenic neurogenic bladder is a voiding dysfunction of the bladder of neuropsychological origin that is characterized by functional bladder outlet obstruction in the absence of neurologic deficits .
collagen type iii glomerulopathy is a rare glomerular disease characterized by abnormal accumulation of type iii collagen within the mesangium and subendothelial space of the glomerulus .
isaac's syndrome is an immune - mediated peripheral motor neuron disorder characterized by continuous muscle fiber activity at rest resulting in muscle stiffness ,  cramps ,  myokymia ,  and pseudomyotonia .
steroid - resistant ,  sporadic idiopathic nephrotic syndrome ,  is a heterogeneous entity .
beta - thalassemia  ( bt )  is characterized by deficiency  ( beta +  )  or absence  ( beta0 )  of synthesis of the beta globin chains of hemoglobin  ( hb )  .
congenital dyserythropoietic anemia  ( cda )  is a heterogenous group of hematological disorders of late erythropoiesis and red cell abnormalities that lead to anemia .
a usually benign perineurioma not associated with a nerve ,  arising from the soft tissues .
facial onset sensory and motor neuronopathy is characterised initially by paraesthesia and numbness in the region of the trigeminal nerve distribution ,  which later progresses to involve the scalp ,  neck ,  upper trunk and upper limbs .
craniofacial conodysplasia is characterised by craniofacial dysplasia ,  cone - shaped physes of the hands and feet ,  and neurological manifestations resembling cerebral palsy .
a bone development disease characterized by early developmental delay primarily involving speech ,  distinct facial features ,  short stature ,  brachydactyly ,  clubfoot deformities ,  cataracts ,  and microcephaly that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in cog4 on chromosome 16q22 .1 .
astley - kendall dysplasia is a lethal skeletal dysplasia characterized by short limbed dwarfism ,  osteogenesis imperfecta ,  and punctate calcification within cartilage .
idiopathic juvenile osteoporosis  ( ijo )  is a primary condition of bone demineralization that presents with pain in the back and extremities ,  walking difficulties ,  multiple fractures ,  and radiological evidence of osteoporosis .
genochondromatosis is characterized by chondromatosis ,  typically involving the clavicles ,  upper end of the humerus ,  and lower end of the femur .
dysspondyloenchondromatosis is a rare skeletal dysplasia characterized by anisospondyly and multiple enchondromas in vertebrae and the metaphyseal and diaphyseal parts of long tubular bones ,  leading to kyphoscoliosis and lower limb asymmetry .
ischio - vertebral syndrome is a very rare ,  poorly - defined bone disease characterized by ischial aplasia or hypoplasia ,  vertebral anomalies  ( vertebral malsegmentation ,  kyphoscoliosis )  ,  and in some patients ,  non - distinctive facial dysmorphism .
x - linked mental retardation ,  reish type is characterised by brain anomalies ,  severe mental retardation ,  ectodermal dysplasia ,  skeletal deformities  ( vertebral anomalies ,  scoliosis ,  polydactyly )  ,  ear / eye anomalies  ( maldevelopment ,  small optic nerves ,  low set and large ears with hearing loss )  and kidney dysplasia / hypoplasia  ( giving the acronym bresek syndrome )  .
fetal and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia  ( nait )  is a blood disorder that affects pregnant women and their babies .
x - linked intellectual disability - hypogammaglobulinemia - progressive neurological deterioration syndrome is characterized by moderate intellectual deficit ,  bilateral single palmar creases ,  seizures ,  variable hypogammaglobulinemia and characteristic features  ( synophrys ,  prognathism ,  and hirsutism )  .
x - linked intellectual disability - precocious puberty - obesity syndrome is characterised by moderate intellectual deficit and precocious puberty .
x - linked intellectual disability - epilepsy - progressive joint contractures - dysmorphism syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy ,  facial dysmorphism and progressive joint contractures .
x - linked intellectual disability - macrocephaly - macroorchidism syndrome is characterised by intellectual deficit affecting both sexes ,  macrocephaly ,  and macroorchidism in the majority of affected males .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  pai type is characterised by the association of dysmorphism with intellectual deficit .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  seemanova type is characterised by microcephaly ,  intellectual deficit ,  growth retardation and hypogenitalism .
an x - linked syndromic intellectual disability characterised by intellectual deficit ,  hypotonia ,  absent deep tendon reflexes ,  tapered fingers and excessive fingerprint arches ,  genu valgum ,  a characteristic face and small teeth .
x - linked intellectual disability ,  stoll type is characterised by intellectual deficit ,  short stature and characteristic facies  ( hypertelorism ,  prominent forehead ,  frontal bossing ,  a broad nasal tip and anteverted nares )  .
x - linked intellectual disability - acromegaly - hyperactivity syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  acromegaly and hyperactivity .
x - linked intellectual disability - hypotonia - facial dysmorphism - aggressive behavior syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  hypotonia ,  mild facial dysmorphism ,  and aggressive behaviour .
x - linked intellectual disability - corpus callosum agenesis - spastic quadriparesis syndrome is characterised by intellectual and motor deficit ,  spastic quadriparesis and agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  without craniofacial abnormalities or seizures .
x - linked neurodegenerative syndrome ,  bertini type is characterised by generalised hypotonia ,  psychomotor deficit ,  congenital ataxia and recurrent bronchopulmonary infections .
fried syndrome is a rare x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome characterized by psychomotor delay ,  intellectual deficit ,  hydrocephalus ,  and mild facial anomalies .
x - linked neurodegenerative syndrome ,  hamel type is an x - linked neurodegenerative disorder characterised by intellectual deficit ,  blindness ,  convulsions ,  spasticity ,  mild hypomyelination and early death .
x - linked intellectual disability - ataxia - apraxia syndrome is characterised by ataxia ,  apraxia ,  intellectual deficit and / or seizures .
portal vein thrombosis  ( pvt )  is associated with acute  ( recent )  or chronic  ( long - standing )  thrombosis of the portal system .
rheumatoid factor - negative polyarthritis is a term used to describe a group of poorly defined heterogenous conditions that incorporates forms of rheumatoid factor - negative polyarthritis and forms of oligoarticular arthritis that become extensive in less than 6 months after onset .
oligoarticular juvenile arthritis is the most common form of juvenile idiopathic arthritis  ( jia )  ,  representing nearly 50% of cases .
systemic - onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis is marked by the severity of the extra - articular manifestations  ( fever ,  cutaneous eruptions )  and by an equal sex ratio .
a category of juvenile idiopathic arthritis defined by the presence of arthritis affecting five or more separate joints during the first six months of disease ,  with positive serologic testing for rheumatoid factor .
childhood arthritis typically associated with psoriasis .
enthesitis - related juvenile idiopathic arthritis is a subtype of juvenile idiopathic arthritis that is characterized by both arthritis and inflammation of an enthesitis site  ( the point at which a ligament ,  tendon ,  or joint capsule attaches to the bone )  .
al amyloidosis is a plasma cell disorder characterized by the aggregation and deposition of insoluble amyloid fibrils derived from misfolding of monoclonal immunoglobulin light chains usually produced by a plasma cell tumor .
secondary amyloidosis is a form of amyloidosis ,  that complicates chronic inflammatory disorders  ( mainly rheumatoid arthritis )  and is characterized by the aggregation and deposition of amyloid fibrils composed of serum amyloid a protein ,  an acute phase reactant .
transthyretin  ( ttr )  - related familial amyloidotic cardiomyopathy is a hereditary ttr - related systemic amyloidosis  ( attr )  with predominant cardiac involvement resulting from myocardial infiltration of abnormal amyloid protein .
congenitally uncorrected transposition of the great arteries  ( congenitally uncorrected tga )  ,  also referred to as complete transposition ,  is a congenital cardiac malformation characterized by atrioventricular concordance and ventriculoarterial  ( va )  discordance .
a zoonotic parasitic disease caused by the consumption of raw or undercooked meat  ( pork and wild game )  infected by nematodes of the genus trichinella and that is characterized by an enteral  ( intestinal )  phase ,  that can be asymptomatic or that can manifests with diarrhea ,  nausea ,  vomiting and abdominal pain ,  and a parenteral  ( muscular )  phase ,  manifesting with fever ,  periorbital edema ,  muscle swelling and pain ,  weakness ,  and in some cases ,  skin rash and peripheral edema .
trichofolliculoma is a rare benign follicular hamartoma that develops primarily on the face of adults ,  with a particular predilection for the back of the nose ,  but also on the neck or scalp .
localized lichen myxedematosus is a group of skin diseases characterized by the development of papules ,  nodules and / or plaques with mucin deposits and a variable degree of fibrosis in the absence of thyroid disease .
atypical lichen myxedematosus is an intermediate form of lichen myxedematosus  ( lm )   ( a form of mucin dermal deposit )  which does not meet the criteria for either scleromyxedema or the localized form .
benign adult familial myoclonic epilepsy  ( bafme )  is an inherited epileptic syndrome characterized by cortical hand tremors ,  myoclonic jerks and occasional generalized or focal seizures with a non - progressive or very slowly progressive disease course ,  and no signs of early dementia or cerebellar ataxia .
lissencephaly type 3 - familial fetal akinesia sequence syndrome is characterised by the association of microencephaly ,  agenesis of the corpus callosum ,  brainstem hypoplasia ,  cystic cerebellum and foetal akinesia sequence .
 - 3 sd )  .lch is characterized by cerebellar underdevelopment ranging from vermian hypoplasia to total aplasia with classical or cobblestone lissencephaly .
a rare chronic myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by neutrophilic leukocytosis .
this subgroup of myeloproliferative neoplasms includes cases which do not meet the morphologic criteria of any of the defined myeloproliferative neoplasms ,  or which have characteristics that overlap at least two of the myeloproliferative neoplasms .
refractory cytopenias with multilineage dysplasia  ( rcmd )  is a frequent subtype of myelodysplastic syndrome  ( mds )  characterized by 1 or more cytopenias in the peripheral blood and dysplasia in 2 or more myeloid lineages .
a myelodysplastic syndrome characterized by the presence of 5 - 19% myeloblasts in the bone marrow or 2 - 19% blasts in the peripheral blood .
an acute myeloid leukemia characterized by bone marrow fibrosis without preexisting primary myelofibrosis .
an acute myeloid leukemia arising de novo and not as a result of treatment .
an acute myeloid leukemia secondary to a myelodysplastic syndrome or therapy - related .
a rare acute myeloid leukemia in which the immature cells differentiate towards basophils .
an acute leukemia in which the blasts lack sufficient evidence to classify as myeloid or lymphoid or they have morphologic and / or immunophenotypic characteristics of both myeloid and lymphoid cells .
a neoplasm of prolymphocytes affecting the blood ,  bone marrow ,  and spleen .
splenic marginal zone lymphoma is a rare ,  indolent b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma characterized by abnormal clonal proliferation of mature b - lymphocytes with involvement in the spleen ,  bone marrow and ,  frequently ,  the blood .
heavy - chain diseases  ( hcds )  are rare monoclonal lymphoplasma - cell proliferative disorders involving b cells and are characterized by the synthesis of truncated heavy chains without associated light chains .
nodal marginal zone b - cell lymphoma is a rare ,  indolent b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma ,  characterized by abnormal clonal proliferation of mature b - lymphocytes with involvement of the lymph nodes ,  sometimes the bone marrow ,  and rarely the blood .
lymphomatoid granulomatosis  ( lyg )  is a very rare epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  - driven lymphoproliferative disease most commonly occurring in adults  ( in the fourth to sixth decade of life )  and commonly affecting the lungs  ( with presentations varying from small bilateral pulmonary nodules to large necrotic and sometimes cavitating lesions )  ,  skin ,  central nervous system ,  and kidneys ,  but only very rarely affecting the lymph nodes and spleen .
an aggressive immature hematologic neoplasm formerly known as blastic nk cell lymphoma ,  composed of cells with a lymphoblast - like morphology .
a slow - growing type of leukemia  ( blood cancer )  in which too many lymphocytes are found in the bone marrow and / or blood .
t - cell large granular lymphocyte leukemia  ( t - cell lgl leukemia )  is a lymphoproliferative malignancy that arises from the mature t - cell  ( cd3 +  )  lineage .
a rare ,  highly aggressive ,  epstein - barr virus - associated leukemia ,  also known as aggressive nk - cell leukemia / lymphoma ;  it may represent the leukemic counterpart of nasal type extranodal nk / t - cell lymphomas .
a peripheral  ( mature )  t - cell neoplasm linked to the human t - cell leukemia virus type 1  ( htlv - 1 )  ,  adult t - cell leukemia / lymphoma is endemic in several regions of the world ,  in particular japan ,  the caribbean ,  and parts of central africa .
extranodal nasal nk / t cell lymphoma  ( nktcl )  is a rare ,  malignant neoplasm mainly affecting men in the fifth decade of life ,  that usually arises in the nose ,  paranasal sinuses ,  orbits or upper airway ,  and that can present with a nasal mass ,  nasal bleeding ,  nasal obstruction ,  palate perforation  ( i .e .
an uncommon mature t - cell lymphoma of intraepithelial lymphocytes .
an extranodal ,  mature t - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma that originates from cytotoxic t - cells ,  usually of gamma / delta t - cell type .
subcutaneous panniculitis - like t - cell lymphoma  ( sptcl )  is a rare cytotoxic cutaneous lymphoma that has been recognized as a distinct subset of peripheral t - cell lymphomas originating and presenting primarily in the subcutaneous fat tissue .
a nodular lymphocyte predominant hodgkin lymphoma occurring in adults .
an aggressive malignant neoplasm with a poor response to therapy ,  usually presenting as stage iii / iv disease .
a neoplastic proliferation of langerhans cells with overtly malignant cytologic features .
methotrexate - associated lymphoproliferative disorders are rare immunodeficiency - associated lymphoproliferative diseases characterized by lymphoid proliferation or lymphomas  ( large b - cell lymphoma ,  t - cell lymphoma ,  hodgkin lymphoma ,  reactive lymphadenitis and a polymorphic post - transplant lymphoproliferative disorder )  that develop in patients with different autoimmune diseases treated with methotrexate .
hypothalamic hamartomas with gelastic seizures is a rare cerebral malformation with epilepsy syndrome characterized by early - onset gelastic  ( i .e .
diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma - acrocyanosis syndrome is characterised by the association of diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma and acrocyanosis .
familial progressive cardiac conduction defect  ( pccd )  is a hereditary cardiac conduction disorder that may progress to complete atrioventricular  ( av )  block .
rare intellectual disability .
adult heart tumor refers to neoplasms of the heart that manifest in adults and generally present with a variety of non - specific manifestations  ( depending on tumor site and infiltration )  such as weight loss ,  exhaustion ,  hemorrhagic pericardial effusion ,  heart failure ,  arrhythmias ,  and embolisms ,  or that can also be asymptomatic .
cardiac tumours are benign or malignant neoplasms arising primarily in the inner lining ,  muscle layer ,  or the surrounding pericardium of the heart .
endocrine tumours ,  also referred to as neuroendocrine tumours  ( nets )  ,  are defined by a common phenotype which is characterized by the expression of general markers  ( neuron specific enolase ,  chromogranin ,  synaptophysin )  and hormone secretion products .
a disease characterized by hearing loss that is not part of a larger syndrome .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with tunga penetrans .
turner syndrome is a chromosomal disorder associated with the complete or partial absence of an x chromosome .
extragonadal teratoma is an extremely rare ,  benign or malignant germ cell tumor characterized ,  clinically ,  by a teratoma presenting in an extragonadal location  ( e .g .
usher syndrome  ( us )  is characterized by the association of sensorineural deafness  ( usually congenital )  with retinitis pigmentosa and progressive vision loss .
autosomal recessive form of non - syndromic intellectual disability .
a spectrum of developmental anomalies that affect the development of the anterior segment of the eyeball resulting from abnormalities of neural crest migration and differentiation during embryologic development  ( axenfeld - rieger syndrome ,  peters anomaly ,  posterior keratoconus ,  and iridoschisis )  .
superior limbic keratoconjunctivitis  ( slk )  is a chronic and recurrent eye disease which affects thesuperior bulbar conjunctiva  ( the clear layer that covers the eyeball ,  over the sclera )  and tarsal conjunctiva  ( the clear layer that lines the eyelids )  ,  as well as the superior limbic aspect of the cornea  ( the area above the cornea )  .
hypomyelination - hypogonadotropic hypogonadism - hypodontia syndrome is characterised by the association of demyelinating leukodystrophy with progressive cerebellar ataxia ,  hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and hypodontia .
obesity - colitis - hypothyroidism - cardiac hypertrophy - developmental delay syndrome is characterised by precocious obesity ,  congenital hypothyroidism ,  neonatal colitis ,  cardiac hypertrophy ,  craniosynostosis and developmental delay .
amelogenesis imperfecta  ( ai )  represents a group of developmental conditions affecting the structure and clinical appearance of the enamel of all or nearly all the teeth in a more or less equal manner ,  and which may be associated with morphologic or biochemical changes elsewhere in the body .
van der woude syndrome  ( vws )  is a rare congenital genetic dysmorphic syndrome characterized by paramedian lower - lip fistulae ,  cleft lip with or without cleft palate ,  or isolated cleft palate .
cutaneous leukocytoclastic angiitis is a small - vessel vasculitis presenting with palpable purpura and urticarial lesions which predate the purpuric lesions most frequently observed on the legs .
an inherited disorder that causes a gradual loss of kidney function that eventually leads to the need for kidney transplantation or dialysis between the ages of 30 and 70 ,  which is caused by a mutation in the umod gene ,  which leads to the build - up of the altered uromodulin protein in the tubules of the kidney ,  leading to slow loss of kidney function .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of heart development .
hepatic veno - occlusive disease  ( hepatic vod )  is a condition resulting from toxic injury to the hepatic sinusoidal capillaries that leads to obstruction of the small hepatic veins .
rare dementia .
familial exudative vitreoretinopathy  ( fevr )  is a rare hereditary vitreoretinal disorder characterized by abnormal or incomplete vascularization of the peripheral retina leading to variable clinical manifestations ranging from no effects to minor anomalies ,  or even retinal detachment with blindness .
waardenburg syndrome type 2  ( ws2 )  is an autosomal dominant subtype of waardenburg syndrome  ( ws )  ,  characterized by varying degrees of deafness and pigmentation anomalies of eyes ,  hair and skin ,  but without dystopia canthorum .
waardenburg - shah syndrome  ( wss )  is a neurocristopathy characterized by the association of waardenburg syndrome  ( sensorineural hearing loss and pigmentary abnormalities )  and hirschsprung disease .
rare skin disease .
a lymphedema that is part of a larger syndrome .
centripetalis recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( rdeb - ce )  is an extremely rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( deb )  ,  characterized by blistering which begins acrally and then progressively spreads toward the trunk .
recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  ( rdeb )  - generalized other ,  also known as rdeb non - hallopeau - siemens type ,  is a subtype of deb characterized by generalized cutaneous and mucosal blistering that is not associated with severe deformities .
walker - warburg syndrome  ( wws )  is a rare form of congenital muscular dystrophy associated with brain and eye abnormalities .
infantile bartter syndrome with deafness ,  a phenotypic variant of bartter syndrome is characterized by maternal polyhydramnios ,  premature delivery ,  polyuria and sensorineural deafness and is associated with hypokalemic alkalosis ,  increased levels of plasma renin and aldosterone ,  low blood pressure ,  and vascular resistance to angiotensin ii .
tetrasomy x is a sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra x chromosomes in females  ( 48 , xxxx instead of 46 , xx )  .
erythema elevatum diutinum  ( eed )  is a distinctive form of chronic cutaneous vasculitis ,  belonging to the group of the neutrophilic dermatoses .
an autoimmune disorder which does not meet classification criteria used to establish the presence of other well - defined connective tissue diseases .
inflammatory pseudotumor  ( ipt )  of the liver is a rare benign tumor - like lesion .
a disease characterized by white matter damage to the spinal cord developed after a certain period of application of ionizing radiation .
a congenital condition characterized by webbing between the fingers and / or toes ,  joining the digits together .
haemolytic anaemia due to glutathione reductase  ( gsr )  deficiency is characterised by nearly complete absence of gsr activity in erythrocytes .
warm autoimmune hemolytic anemia is the most common form of autoimmune hemolytic anemia defined by the presence of warm autoantibodies against red blood cells  ( autoantibodies that are active at temperatures between 37 - 40b0c )  .
paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria  ( pch )  is a very rare subtype of autoimmune hemolytic anemia  ( aiha )  ,  caused by the presence of cold - reacting autoantibodies in the blood and characterized by the sudden presence of hemoglobinuria ,  typically after exposure to cold temperatures .
mixed autoimmune hemolytic anemia is a type of autoimmune hemolytic anemia  ( aiha )  defined by the presence of both warm and cold autoantibodies ,  which have a deleterious effect on red blood cells at either body temperature or at lower temperatures .
drug - induced autoimmune hemolytic anemia is a type of autoimmune hemolytic anemia  ( aiha )  that occurs as a reaction to therapeutic drugs ,  and can be due to various mechanisms .
typical hemolytic - uremic syndrome  ( typical hus )  is a thrombotic microangiopathy characterized by mechanical hemolytic anemia ,  thrombocytopenia ,  and renal dysfunction that is usually associated with prodromal enteritis caused by shigella dysentriae type 1 or e . coli .
hemoglobin d disease ( hbd )  is a hemoglobinopathy characterized by production of abnormal variant hemoglobin known as hemoglobin d ,  with no or mild clinical manifestations  ( splenomegaly ,  very mild anemia )  .
polycythemia that is caused by stress .
rapid deterioration of liver function causing encephalopathy and coagulopathy .
acquired aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage is a serious ,  life threatening rare neurologic disease characterized by a sudden rupture of an intracranial aneurysm into the subarachnoid space .
systemic monochloroacetate poisoning is a rare ,  life - threatening intoxication with monochloroacetic acid  ( mainly through the skin ,  but also by inhalation or ingestion )  .
wells syndrome is characterised by the presence of recurrent cellulitis - like eruptions with eosinophilia .
autosomal dominant form of intermediate charcot - marie - tooth disease .
10 years )  progressive distal muscle weakness and wasting of the lower limbs and later ,  to a lesser extent the upper limbs resulting in foot and wrist drop ,  areflexia ,  skeletal deformities  ( kyphoscoliosis ,  pes cavus with flattening ,  joint contractures )  ,  mild sensory impairment with vibration sense reduced to a greater extent than pain ,  optic atrophy and hearing loss .
hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy with acrodystrophy is a rare axonal hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by progressive axonal neuropathy with limb weakness and severe distal sensory loss in all limbs and acrodystrophic changes leading to painless non - healing ulcers ,  osteomyelitis ,  contractures and mutilating lesions with loss of terminal phalanges .
centrifugal lipodystrophy is a rare ,  acquired ,  localized lipodistrophy characterized by single or ,  occasionally ,  multiple ,  centrifugally progressive ,  asymptomatic to sometimes mildly tender ,  hypopigmented ,  lipoatrophic skin depressions with weakly erymatheous inflammatory borders ,  typically associated with regional ipsilateral lymph nodes swelling .
drug - induced localized lipodystrophy is a rare ,  acquired ,  localized lipodystrophy characterized by the appearance of asymptomatic ,  well - demarcated ,  variably sized ,  depressed ,  lipoatrophic lesions secondary to subcutaneous ,  intradermic or intramuscular drug injection ,  including corticosteroids ,  insulin ,  human growth hormone and antibiotics .
idiopathic localized lipodystrophy is a rare ,  acquired ,  localized lipodystrophy characterized by asymptomatic ,  well - demarcated ,  depressed ,  lipoatrophic lesions of variable size ,  with normal overlying skin without antecedent inflammation or a known identifiable cause  ( autoimmune disease ,  drug injection ,  injury ,  etc )  .
pressure - induced localized lipoatrophy is a rare ,  acquired ,  localized lipodystrophy characterized by band - like ,  horizontal ,  asymptomatic ,  lipoatrophic depressions with clinically normal overlying skin usually involving the anterolateral aspect of the thighs .
a rare ,  chronic cutaneous lupus erythematosus disease characterized by red or violaceous ,  initially pruritic  ( evolving to painful )  papules and plaques located on acral areas  ( especially dorsal aspects of fingers and toes ,  while the nose and ear involvement is uncommon )  ,  exacerbated by cold and damp conditions ,  with fissuring and ulceration occasionally observed .
a chronic ,  autoimmune skin condition that manifests with a red ,  scaling rash ,  most often found on the face ,  ears ,  and scalp ;  these lesions often lead to permanent scarring and dyspigmentation .
tumid erythematosus lupus is considered a rare type of chronic cutaneous lupus erythematosus .
a type of lupus erythematosus characterized by deep dermal or subcutaneous nodules ,  most often on the head ,  face ,  or upper arms .
localized scleroderma is the skin localized form of scleroderma characterized by fibrosis of the skin causing cutaneous plaques or strips .
crest syndrome is a subtype of limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis  ( lcssc )  whose name is an acronym for the cardinal clinical features of the syndrome: calcinosis ,  raynaud's phenomenon ,  esophageal dysmotility ,  sclerodactyly and telangiectasia .
hereditary von willebrand disease  ( vwd )  is a hereditary bleeding disorder caused by a genetic anomaly leading to quantitative ,  structural or functional abnormalities of the willebrand factor  ( von willebrand factor ;  vwf )  .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  type i belongs to the classical type ehlers - danlos syndrome .
ehlers - danlos syndrome ,  type ii belongs to the classical type ehlers - danlos syndrome .
cockayne syndrome caused by mutation ( s )  in the ercc8 gene ,  encoding dna excision repair protein ercc - 8 .
cockayne syndrome caused by mutation ( s )  in the ercc6 gene ,  encoding dna excision repair protein ercc - 6 .
autosomal dominant cutis laxa  ( adcl )  is a connective tissue disorder characterized by wrinkled ,  redundant and sagging inelastic skin associated in some cases with internal organ involvement .
autosomal recessive cutis laxa ,  type 1  ( arcl1 )  is a generalized connective tissue disorder characterized by the association of wrinkled ,  redundant and sagging inelastic skin with severe systemic manifestations  ( lung atelectesias and emphysema ,  vascular anomalies ,  and gastrointestinal and genitourinary tract diverticuli )  .
autosomal recessive cutis laxa ,  type 2  ( arcl2 )  appears to cover a spectrum of connective tissue disorders characterized by the association of wrinkled ,  redundant and sagging inelastic skin with growth and developmental delay ,  and skeletal anomalies .
secondary intestinal lymphangiectasia is an acquired from of intestinal lymphangiectasia manifesting as a protein - losing enteropathy due to another disorder such as crohnbs disease ,  congestive heart failure ,  sarcoidosis ,  turner syndrome and often in patients who have undergone a fontan operation .
hypotrichosis simplex of the scalp  ( hss )  is characterized by diffuse progressive hair loss that is confined to the scalp .
nodular lichen myxedematosus is a rare form of localized lichen myxedematosus characterized by the development of skin - coloured mucinous nodules on the limbs and trunk ,  with mild or absent papular eruption .
discrete papular lichen myxedematosus is a rare chronic ,  slowly progressive form of localized lichen myxedematosus characterized by the development of a few to multiple small symmetrical skin - coloured mucinous papules on the limbs and trunk .
papular mucinosis of infancy is a rare pediatric non progressive form of localized lichen myxedematosus characterized by the development of firm opalescent mucinous papules on the upper arms and the trunk .
acral persistent papular mucinosis is a rare chronic form of localized lichen myxedematosus characterized by the development of multiple symmetrical skin - colored mucinous papules exclusively on the extensor surface of the hands and distal forearms .
self - healing papular mucinosis is a rare form of localized lichen myxedematosus occurring primarily in children and characterized by the development of mucinous papules on various parts of the body  ( face ,  neck ,  trunk ,  and limbs )  that resolve spontaneously within some weeks to months .
localized lichen myxedematosus  ( lm )  with mixed features of different subtypes is a form of atypical lichen myxedematosus ,  characterized by mixed features of the 5 subtypes of localized lm which are: discrete papular lm ,  acral persistent papular mucinosis ,  self - healing papular mucinosis ,  papular mucinosis of infancy ,  and nodular lm .
localized lichen myxedematosus with monoclonal gammopathy or systemic symptoms is a form of atypical lichen myxedematosus ,  characterized by the appearance of several 2 - 4 mm erythematous waxy papules confined to a few sites that may be associated with either an immunoglobulin a  ( iga )  nephropathy in patients with acral persistent papular mucinosis ;  discrete papular lichen myxedematosus ;  a scleromyxedema - like involvement ,  with dysphagia ,  hoarseness ,  pulmonary involvement ,  and carpal tunnel syndrome ;  myositis without skin sclerosis ;  or paraproteinemia .
scleromyxedema without monoclonal gammopathy is a form of atypical lichen myxedematosus ,  characterized by a generalized sclerodermoid infiltration of skin studded with multiple ,  firm papules of 1 - 3 mm in diameter involving face  ( leonine appearance )  ,  trunk ,  and limbs ,  without monoclonal gammopathy .
x - linked form of nonsyndromic deafness .
autosomal dominant form of nonsyndromic deafness .
autosomal recessive form of nonsyndromic deafness .
insufficient production of all the anterior pituitary hormones .
in gonochoristic organisms ,  congenital conditions in which development of chromosomal ,  gonadal ,  or anatomical sex is atypical .
46 , xy disorder of sex development due to isolated 17 , 20 - lyase deficiency is a rare disorder of sex development due to reduced 17 , 20 - lyase activity that affects individuals with 46 , xy karyotype and is characterized by ambiguous external genitalia ,  including micropenis ,  perineal hypospadias ,  bifid scrotum ,  cryptorchidism ,  and a blind vaginal pouch .
primary lipodystrophies represent a heterogeneous group of very rare diseases characterized by a generalized or localized loss of body fat  ( lipoatrophy )  .
xeroderma pigmentosum  ( xp )  is a rare genodermatosis characterized by extreme sensitivity to ultraviolet  ( uv )  - induced changes in the skin and eyes ,  and multiple skin cancers .
autosomal recessive form of axonal hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy .
osteopenia - myopia - hearing loss - intellectual disability - facial dysmorphism syndrome is characterised by severe hypertelorism ,  brachycephaly ,  abnormal ears ,  sloping shoulders ,  enamel hypoplasia ,  osteopaenia with frequent fractures ,  severe myopia ,  mild to moderate sensorineural hearing loss and mild intellectual deficit .
fanconi syndrome  ( fs )  is a generalized disorder of renal proximal tubule function .
immunotactoid or fibrillary glomerulopathy is a group of very rare glomerular diseases ,  composed of immunotactoid glomerulopathy  ( itg )  and non - amyloid fibrillary glomerulopathy  ( non - amyloid fgp )  ,  that are characterized by mesangial deposition of monoclonal microtubular or polyclonal fibrillar deposits .
simple  ( monoclonal )  cryoglobulinemia or type i cryoglobulinemia refers to the presence in the serum of one isotype or subclass of immunoglobulin  ( ig )  that precipitates reversibly below 37c .
unspecified juvenile idiopathic arthritis is a rare ,  pediatric ,  rheumatologic disease ,  a subtype of juvenile idiopathic arthritis  ( jia )  characterized by arthritis of an unknown cause that persists for at least 6 weeks ,  and does not fulfill the criteria for any of the other jia subtypes ,  or fulfills criteria for more than one of the other subtypes .
zellweger syndrome  ( zs )  is the most severe variant seen in the peroxisome biogenesis disorders ,  zellweger syndrome spectrum  ( pbd - zss )  ,  characterized by neuronal migration defects in the brain ,  dysmorphic craniofacial features ,  profound hypotonia ,  neonatal seizures ,  and liver dysfunction .
zollinger - ellison syndrome  ( zes )  is characterized by severe peptic disease  ( ulcers / esophageal disease )  caused by hypergastrinemia secondary to a gastrinoma resulting in increased gastric acid secretion .
a rare adenoma of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that produces thyrotropin .
functioning gonadotropic adenoma is a very rare pituitary tumor ,  macroscopically characterized by a soft ,  well vascularized ,  variable sized adenoma ,  with occasional areas of hemorrage or necrosis ,  that secretes biologically active gonadotropins .
a hormone producing or non - producing pituitary gland adenoma not associated with a hormonal syndrome .
an uncommon cause of hypopituitarism seen after severe postpartum hemorrhaging .
congenital esophageal diverticulum is a rare ,  non - syndromic malformation of the esophagus ,  present at birth ,  and characterized by a false diverticulum ,  most often located in the upper ,  posterior esophagus .
chronic pneumonitis of infancy is a rare pediatric form of interstitial lung disease  ( ild )  .
idiopathic interstitial pneumonia characterized by chronic inflammation and fibrosis in the interstitial lung tissue .
hereditary angioedema  ( hae )  is a genetic disease characterized by the occurrence of transitory and recurrent subcutaneous and / or submucosal edemas resulting in swelling and / or abdominal pain .
acquired angioedema  ( aae )  is characterized by the occurrence of transitory and recurrent subcutaneous and / or submucosal edemas resulting in swelling and / or abdominal pain due to an acquired c1 inhibitor  ( c1 - inh )  deficiency .
familial thoracic aortic aneurysm and aortic dissection is a rare genetic vascular disease characterized by the familial occurrence of thoracic aortic aneurysm ,  dissection or dilatation affecting one or more aortic segments  ( aortic root ,  ascending aorta ,  arch or descending aorta )  in the absence of any other associated disease .
isolated ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum  ( afa )  is characterised by the presence of single or multiple thin bands of connective tissue between the upper and lower eyelids ,  preventing full opening of the eye .
congenital alacrima is characterised by deficient lacrimation  ( ranging from a complete absence of tears to hyposecretion of tears )  that is present from birth .
rieger's anomaly is a congenital ocular defect caused by anterior segment dysgenesis and is characterized by severe anterior chamber deformity with prominent strands and marked atrophy of the iris stroma ,  with hole or pseudo - hole formation and corectopia .
a corneal disease in which the cornea blends with sclera ,  resulting in clouding of the cornea .
congenital ectropion uveae is a rare ,  genetic ,  non - syndromic developmental defect of the eye characterized by the presence of iris pigment epithelium on the anterior surface of the iris ,  anterior insertion of the iris ,  angle dysgenesis and progressive open - angle glaucoma  ( the latter may present in infancy or may develop later in life )  .
a developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary vitreous body and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress .
lyme disease  ( named after the towns in the usa where the disease was first identified )  is a bacterial infection caused by borrelia burgdorferi .
relapsing fever is an infection caused by bacteria of the genus borrelia ,  excluding those responsible for lyme disease belonging to the borrelia burgdorferi complex .
familial nasal acilia is a rare genetic otorhinolaryngologic disease characterized by respiratory morbidity due to lack of cilia on the respiratory tract epithelial cells .
idiopathic achalasia  ( ia )  is a primary esophageal motor disorder characterized by loss of esophageal peristalsis and insufficient lower esophageal sphincter  ( les )  relaxation in response to deglutition .
unilateral renal agenesis  ( ura )  is a form of renal agenesis characterized by the complete absence of development of one kidney accompanied by an absent ureter .
renal hypoplasia is a developmental anomaly in which one or both kidneys  ( unilateral or bilateral renal hypoplasia ,  respectively )  have a deficit in the number of nephrons and may be small .
renal dysplasia is a form of renal malformation in which the kidney ( s )  are present but their development is abnormal and incomplete .
congenital megacalycosis is a rare renal malformation ,  characterized by non - obstructive dilation of the renal calyces as well as an increased calyceal number  ( 12 - 20 )  ,  with a normal renal pelvis ,  ureter ,  and bladder .
posterior urethral valve  ( puv )  is the most common anomaly of fetal lower urinary tract obstruction  ( luto ) and is characterized by an abnormal congenital obstructing membrane that is located within the posterior urethra associated with significant obstruction of the male bladder restricting normal bladder emptying .
pauci - immune glomerulonephritis  ( gn )  is one of the most frequent causes of rapidly progressive gn  ( rpgn )  .
hypocalcemic vitamin d - resistant rickets  ( hvdrr )  is a hereditary disorder of vitamin d action characterized by hypocalcemia ,  severe rickets and in many cases alopecia .
transient pseudohypoaldosteronism is a renal tubulopathy characterized by renal tubular resistance to aldosterone ,  characterized by hyponatremia ,  metabolic acidosis and hyperkalemia and manifesting as dehydration ,  secondary to urinary tract malformation and infections in infants .
unilateral renal dysplasia is a form of renal dysplasia  ( rd )  ,  a renal tract malformation in which the development of one kidney is abnormal and incomplete .
bilateral renal dysplasia is a form of renal dysplasia  ( rd )  ,  a renal tract malformation in which the development of both kidneys is abnormal and incomplete .
achondrogenesis describes a rare group of lethal skeletal dysplasias characterized by an endochondral ossification deficiency that leads to dwarfism with extreme micromelia ,  a small thorax ,  a prominent abdomen ,  anasarca and polyhydramnios .
pfeiffer syndrome type 1  ( ps1 )  is a mild to moderately severe type of pfeiffer syndrome  ( ps )  ,  characterized by bicoronal craniosynostosis ,  variable finger and toe malformations ,  and in most cases ,  normal intellectual development .
pfeiffer syndrome type 2  ( ps2 )  is a frequent and severe type of pfeiffer syndrome  ( ps )  ,  characterized by cloverleaf skull ,  severe associated functional disorders ,  and hand / foot and elbow / knee abnormalities .
pfeiffer syndrome type 3  ( ps3 )  is a severe type of pfeiffer syndrome  ( ps )  ,  characterized by bicoronal craniosynostosis ,  severe associated functional disorders ,  and hand ,  foot and elbow abnormalities .
short rib - polydactyly syndrome  ( srps )  ,  saldino - noonan type is an extremely rare type of srps with neonatal onset characterized by polydactyly ,  hydropic appearance ,  and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress .
short rib - polydactyly syndrome ,  verma - naumoff type is a short rib - polydactyly syndrome ,  characterized by short limb dwarfism ,  short ribs with thoracic dysplasia ,  postaxial polydactyly and protuberant abdomen .
fibrous dysplasia of bone involving only one bone .
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia  ( semd )  ,  pakistani type is characterized by short stature ,  short and bowed lower limbs ,  mild brachydactyly ,  kyphoscoliosis ,  abnormal gait ,  enlarged knee joints ,  precocious osteoarthropathy ,  and normal intelligence .
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda  ( sedt )  is characterized by disproportionate short stature in adolescence or adulthood ,  associated with a short trunk and arms and barrel - shaped chest .
ulnar hemimelia is a congenital ulnar deficiency of the forearm characterized by complete or partial absence of the ulna bone .
radial hemimelia is a congenital longitudinal deficiency of the radius bone of the forearm characterized by partial or total absence of the radius .
fibular hemimelia is a congenital longitudinal limb deficiency characterized by complete or partial absence of the fibula bone .
a form of skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe dwarfism ,  generalized articular hypermobility ,  and progressive spinal malalignment .
brachydactyly type b  ( bdb )  is a very rare congenital malformation characterized by hypoplasia or aplasia of the terminal parts of fingers 2 to 5 ,  with complete absence of the fingernails .
brachydactyly type e  ( bde )  is a congenital malformation of the digits characterized by variable shortening of the metacarpals with more or less normal length phalanges ,  although the terminal phalanges are often short .
brachydactyly type a5  ( bda5 )  is a very rare congenital malformation of the digits characterized by absence of the middle phalanges  ( usually of digits 2 to 5 )  ,  nail dysplasia and duplicated terminal phalanx of the thumb .
brachydactyly type a7  ( smorgasbord type )  is a form of brachydactyly that presents with the characteristic features of brachydactyly type a2  ( shortening of the middle phalanges of the index finger and ,  sometimes ,  of the little finger )  and type d  ( shortening of the distal phalanx of the thumb )  plus various additional features .
genochondromatosis type 2 is a rare genetic bone development disorder characterized by normal clavicles and symmetrical generalized metaphyseal enchondromas particularly in the distal femur ,  proximal humerus ,  and bones of the wrists ,  hands ,  and feet .
syndactyly type 2 or synpolydactyly  ( spd )  is a rare congenital distal limb malformation characterized by the combination of syndactyly and polydactyly .
rare bone disease .
acromesomelic dysplasia describes a group of extremely rare ,  inherited ,  progressive skeletal conditions that result in a particular form of short stature ,  called short - limb dwarfism .
a rare congenital developmental disorder characterized by the presence of stippled foci of calcification in the hyaline cartilage ,  joint contractions ,  mental retardation and ichthyosis .
a group of syndromes caused by genetic birth defects that may lead to the development of malignancies .
a urinary system disease characterized by structural malformations in the kidney and / or urinary tract containing vesicoureteral reflux .
a renal or urinary tract malformation that is not part of a larger syndrome .
a renal or urinary tract malformation that is part of a larger syndrome .
a disease involving the renal glomerulus .
secondary glomerular diseases are conditions with glomerular pathology in which an underlying cause can be established
type ii mixed cryoglobulinemia ,  a relatively rare clinico - serological subtype of mixed cryoglobulinemia  ( mc )  ,  is an immune complex disorder characterized by purpura ,  weakness and arthralgia and defined immunochemically by cryoglobulins composed of polyclonal iggs  ( autoantigens )  and monoclonal igm  ( autoantibody )  .
type iii mixed cryoglobulinemia ,  a relatively rare clinico - serological subtype of mixed cryoglobulinemia  ( mc )  ,  is an immune complex disorder characterized by purpura ,  weakness and arthralgia and defined immunochemically by cryoglobulins containing both polyclonal iggs and polyclonal igms .
light chain deposition disease  ( lcdd )  is a rare condition characterized by the deposition of specific proteins  ( monoclonal light chains )  in the kidneys and other organs .
an idiopathic inflammatory myopathy of childhood resulting in muscle weakness .
a syndrome characterized by pain ,  stiffness ,  and tenderness of the proximal muscle groups including the shoulder ,  pelvic girdle and the neck .
dense deposit disease ,  a histological subtype of mpgn is an idiopathic chronic progressive kidney disorder distinguished by the presence of intra - membranous dense deposits in addition to immune complex subendothelial deposits in the glomerular capillary walls .
the syndromes of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia ,  thrombocytopenia ,  and variable signs of organ impairment ,  due to platelet aggregation in the microcirculation .
acquired thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is the non - hereditary form of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura  ( ttp )  ,  characterized by profound peripheral thrombocytopenia ,  microangiopathic hemolytic anemia  ( maha )  and single or multiple organ failure of variable severity .
an instance of cystic kidney disease that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
any disease in which the causes of the disease is a perturbation of the renal tubule leading to its dysfunction .
any of the forms of kidney neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
any of the forms of urinary system disease that have a rare incidence .
a group of disorders of the innate immune system characterized by attacks of seemingly unprovoked inflammation without significant levels of either autoantibodies or autoreactive t cells more characteristic of autoimmune disease .
pediatric castleman disease  ( pcd )  is a form of castleman disease  ( cd )  with a predominant occurrence in teenagers which is either asymptomatic or manifest by systemic  ( such as fever ,  anemia ,  fatigue and failure to thrive )  or compressive symptoms .
localized castleman disease  ( lcd )  is the most common form of castleman disease  ( cd )  and it is usually asymptomatic or it may present with enlarged lymph nodes .
multicentric castleman disease  ( mcd )  is an aggressive form of castleman disease that mostly results from human herpesvirus 8  ( hhv8 )  infection .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of embryonic morphogenesis .
lobar holoprosencephaly is the mildest classical form of holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  characterized by separation of the right and left cerebral hemispheres and lateral ventricules with some continuity across the frontal neocortex ,  especially rostrally and ventrally .
alobar holoprosencephaly is the most severe classical form of holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  characterized by a single brain ventricle and no interhemispheric fissure .
midline interhemispheric variant of holoprosencephaly  ( mih )  or syntelencephaly is a form of holoprosencephaly  ( hpe )  characterized by non - separation of the posterior frontal and parietal lobes ,  normally - formed callosal genu and splenium ,  absence of the callosal body ,  normally - separated hypothalamus and lentiform nucleus ,  and frequent heterotopic gray matter .
epispadias is a congenital genitourinary malformation belonging to the spectrum of the exstrophy - epispadias complex  ( eec )  and is characterized in males by an ectopic meatus or a mucosal strip in place of the urethra on the penile dorsum and in females by bifid clitoris and a variable cleft of the urethra .
laryngo - tracheo - esophageal cleft  ( lc )  type 1 is a congenital respiratory tract anomaly characterized by a supraglottic ,  interarytenoid cleft above the vocal folds with moderate respiratory symptoms .
laryngo - tracheo - esophageal cleft  ( lc )  type 2 is a congenital respiratory tract anomaly characterized by a cleft extending below the vocal folds into the cricoid cartilage ,  with swallowing disorders and lung infections .
laryngo - tracheo - esophageal cleft  ( lc )  type 3 is a congenital respiratory tract anomaly characterized by a cleft extending through the cricoid cartilage ,  sometimes into the cervical trachea ,  with severe swallowing disorders ,  lung infections and pulmonary damage .
laryngo - tracheo - esophageal cleft  ( lc )  type 4 is a serious congenital respiratory tract anomaly characterized by a cleft extending into the thoracic trachea and possibly down to the carina ,  with respiratory distress .
hamel cerebro - palato - cardiac syndrome is an x - linked intellectual disability syndrome  ( xlmr )  characterized by intellectual deficiency ,  microcephaly and short stature .
golabi - ito - hall syndrome is an x - linked intellectual disability syndrome  ( xlmr )  characterized by intellectual deficiency ,  microcephaly and short stature .
oromandibular dystonia  ( omd )  is a form of focal dystonia ,  affecting the lower part of the face and jaws .
blepharospasm - oromandibular dystonia ,  also called meige dystonia or meige syndrome is a focal dystonia involving symmetrical benign essential blepharospasm  ( beb )  and oromandibular dystonia .
myelomeningocele is the most severe form of spina bifida .
holmes - gang syndrome is an x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome belonging to the group of conditions characterised by the association of intellectual deficit with hypotonic facies  ( mental retardation ,  x - linked - hypotonic facies )  .
chudley - lowry syndrome is an x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome belonging to the group of conditions characterised by the association of intellectual deficit with hypotonic facies  ( mental retardation - hypotonic facies )  .
juberg - marsidi syndrome is an x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome belonging to the group of conditions characterised by the association of intellectual deficit with hypotonic facies  ( mental retardation ,  x - linked - hypotonic facies )  .
carpenter - waziri syndrome is an x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome belonging to the group of conditions characterised by the association of intellectual deficit with hypotonic facies  ( mental retardation ,  x - linked - hypotonic facies )  .
smith - fineman - myers syndrome  ( sfms )  is an x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome belonging to the group of conditions characterised by the association of intellectual deficit with hypotonic facies  ( mental retardation ,  x - linked - hypotonic facies )  .
renier - gabreels - jasper syndrome is an x - linked mental retardation  ( xlmr )  syndrome belonging to the group of conditions characterised by the association of intellectual deficit with hypotonic facies  ( mental retardation ,  x - linked - hypotonic facies )  .
anotia is a congenital malformation of the external ear and the most extreme form of microtia characterized by the complete absence of the external ear and auditory canal ,  conductive hearing loss ,  attention deficit disorders and delayed language development .
a tumor of the brain or spinal cord showing astrocytic differentiation .
neovascular glaucoma is the most common type of secondary glaucoma ,  usually caused by diabetic retinopathy ,  central retinal vein occlusion and carotid artery obstruction but sometimes by trauma ,  uvietis or ocular tumors ,  and characterized by severe eye pain ,  synechial angle glaucoma ,  high intraocular pressure and leading to loss of vision .
12q14 microdeletion syndrome is characterised by mild intellectual deficit ,  failure to thrive ,  short stature and osteopoikilosis .
severe intellectual disability - epilepsy - anal anomalies - distal phalangeal hypoplasia is characterised by severe intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy ,  hypoplasia of the terminal phalanges ,  and an anteriorly displaced anus .
severe - immune mediated enteropathy describes a variety of intestinal disorders that can range from a serious ,  early - onset systemic disease  ( ipex )  to a mild isolated gastrointestinal disease .
non - functioning paraganglioma is a rare neuroendocrine tumor arising from neural crest - derived paraganglion cells  ( most often in the para - aortic region at the level of renal hilia ,  organ of zuckerkandl ,  thoracic paraspinal region ,  bladder ,  and carotid body )  not associated with catecholamine secretion .
cytophagic histiocytic panniculitis  ( chp )  is a very rare form of panniculitis manifesting as recurrent multiple subcutaneous nodules  ( which may progressively become ecchymotic and ulcerated )  ,  and histologically characterized by lobular panniculitis with lymphocytic and histiocytic infiltration in the subcutaneous adipose tissue .
neuroleptic malignant syndrome  ( nms )  is an idiosyncratic condition associated with administration of antipsychotic and other central dopaminergic blockers ,  and characterized by hyperthermia ,  muscular rigidity ,  autonomic dysfunction and altered consciousness .
autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca )  type i is a group of spinocerebellar ataxias  ( scas )  characterized by ataxia with other neurological signs ,  including oculomotor disturbances ,  cognitive deficits ,  pyramidal and extrapyramidal dysfunction ,  bulbar ,  spinal and peripheral nervous system involvement .
autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( acda )  type iii is a group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by mostly pure cerebellar syndromes with occasional non - cerebellar signs  ( e .g .
acalvaria is a rare malformation defined as missing scalp and flat bones over an area of the cranial vault .
acrocephalosyndactyly  ( acs )  syndromes represent a group of inherited congenital malformation disorders characterized by craniosynostosis and fusion or webbing of the fingers or toes ,  often with other associated manifestations .
acrodysostosis  ( acrdys )  is a rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by severe brachydactyly ,  peripheral dysostosis with facial dysostosis ,  nasal hypoplasia ,  and developmental delay .
hepatoerythropioetic porphyria  ( hep )  is a very rare form of chronic hepatic porphyria characterized by bullous photodermatitis .
chronic hepatic porphyrias represent a sub - group of porphyrias .
acute adrenal insufficiency  ( aai )  is a rare but severe condition caused by a sudden defective production of adrenal steroids  ( cortisol and aldosterone )  .
secondary short bowel syndrome is an intestinal failure caused by any condition that results in a functional small intestine of less than 200 cm in length and is characterized by diarrhea ,  nutrient malabsoption ,  bowel dilation and dysmobility .
angioma serpiginosum  ( as )  is a benign congenital skin disease characterised by progressive dilation of the subepidermal skin vessels manifesting as purple punctate lesions usually appearing on the lower limbs and buttocks and following the lines of blaschko .
congenital tracheomalacia is a rare condition where the trachea is soft and flexible causing the tracheal wall to collapse when exhaling ,  coughing or crying ,  that usually presents in infancy ,  and that is characterized by stridor and noisy breathing or upper respiratory infections .
twin twin transfusion syndrome  ( ttts )  is a rare condition seen in twin monochorionic pregnancies ,  typically developing during the 15 - 26 week gestation period and usually due to unbalanced intertwin placental anastomoses ,  where an unequal exchange of blood between twins causes oligohydramnios in one sac and polyhydramnios in the other which can lead to a high perinatal mortality rate and a high rate of disability in survivors if left untreated
primary progressive aphasia  ( ppa )  is a neurodegenerative disorder ,  characterized by a primary dissolution of language ,  with relative sparing of other mental faculties for at least the first 2 years of illness .
a rare congenital heart defect characterized by the complete failure of the aortic valve to open .
dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth .
toxic epidermal necrolysis  ( ten )  is an acute and severe skin disease with clinical and histological features characterized by the destruction and detachment of the skin epithelium and mucous membranes .
straddling or overriding tricuspid valve is a rare ,  congenital ,  tricuspid valve malformation characterized by the tricuspid valve that overrides the ventricular septum and communicates with both ventricles ,  as part of the tension apparatus of the valve crosses the ventricular septal defect and is attached in the left ventricle .
accessory tricuspid valve tissue is a rare ,  congenital ,  atrioventricular valve malformation characterized by fixed or mobile accessory tissue on the tricuspid valve ,  usually associated with other complex congenital heart anomalies  ( atrial septal defect ,  ventricular septal defect ,  transposition of great arteries ,  tetralogy fallot )  .
premature closure of the arterial duct is a rare arterial duct anomaly ,  defined as a significant constriction or closure of the fetal arterial duct in the absence of structural heart defects with pathognomonic features of increased right ventricular afterload ,  tricuspid regurgitation and ,  consequently ,  right atrial dilation and right ventricular hypertrophy .
congenital coronary artery aneurysm is a rare congenital coronary artery malformation defined as a more than 1 .5 fold the normal size dilatation of a coronary artery segment with no identified underlying inflammatory or connective tissue disease .
pituitary stalk interruption syndrome  ( psis )  is a congenital abnormality of the pituitary that is responsible for pituitary deficiency and is usually characterized by the triad of a very thin or interrupted pituitary stalk ,  an ectopic  ( or absent )  posterior pituitary  ( epp )  and hypoplasia or aplasia of the anterior pituitary visible on mri .
an instance of hypopituitarism that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
immune - mediated inflammation of the pituitary gland often associated with other autoimmune diseases  ( e .g . ,  hashimoto disease ;  graves disease ;  and addison disease )  .
an autoimmune disease of the pituitary gland which can present with varying degrees of pituitary hormonal impairment and / or with symptoms related to pituitary enlargement .
acro - pectoro - renal field defect is a very rare association of a poland anomaly ,  that is characterized by unilateral absence or hypoplasia of the pectoralis major muscle  ( most frequently involving the sternocostal head )  and a variable degree of ipsilateral hand anomalies  ( including symbrachydactyly ,  brachydactyly ,  absent thumb and hypoplastic fingers )  ,  combined with a genito - urinary anomaly .
acquired central diabetes insipidus  ( acquired cdi )  is a subtype of central diabetes insipidus  ( cdi )  ,  characterized by polyuria and polydipsia ,  due to an idiopathic or secondary decrease in vasopressin  ( avp )  production .
posterior hypospadias is a rare ,  non - syndromic ,  urogenital tract malformation characterized by an ectopic urethral meatus opening located in the posterior penis ,  the penoscrotal junction ,  the scrotum or the perineum ,  which often appears stenotic .
an instance of primary ovarian failure that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an instance of primary ovarian failure that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
thyroid dysgenesis is a type of primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth .
thyroid ectopia is a form of thyroid dysgenesis characterized by an ectopic location of the thyroid gland that results in primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid deficiency that is present from birth .
athyreosis is a form of thyroid dysgenesis characterized by complete absence of thyroid tissue that results in primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid deficiency that is present from birth .
primary congenital hypothyroidism without thyroid developmental anomaly is a type of primary congenital hypothyroidism in which the thyroid gland is anatomically normal .
congenital hypothyroidism due to transplacental passage of maternal thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  - binding inhibitory antibodies is a type of transient congenital hypothyroidism ,  a thyroid hormone deficiency that is not permanent .
idiopathic congenital hypothyroidism is a type of primary congenital hypothyroidism whose cause and prevalence are unknown .
thyroid hemiagenesis is a form of thyroid dysgenesis characterized by an absence of half of the thyroid gland that is usually asymptomatic but may result in primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid deficiency that is present from birth .
thyroid hypoplasia is a form of thyroid dysgenesis characterized by incomplete development of the thyroid gland that results in primary congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid deficiency that is present from birth .
a condition where the heart is in the correct anatomic position but some or all of the other thoracoabdominal viscera are in the opposite lateral orientation .
an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by upper limb anomalies ,  ocular anomalies ,  and ,  in some cases ,  renal anomalies .
tetrasomy 21 is an extremely rare autosomal anomaly resulting from the presence of 4 copies of chromosome 21 ,  characterized by features of trisomy 21 including developmental delay / intellectual disability ,  muscular hypotonia ,  short neck with redundant skin ,  brachycephaly ,  microcephaly ,  flat face ,  epicanthus ,  upslanted palpebral fissures ,  small ears ,  protruding tongue ,  single transverse palmar crease ,  brachydactyly ,  hypoplastic iliac wings ,  together with additional features such as prematurity ,  intrauterine growth retardation ,  high and broad forehead ,  hypertelorism .
mosaic trisomy 4 is a rare autosomal anomaly ,  due to the presence of an extra copy of chromosome 4 in a fraction of all cells ,  with a variable phenotype characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  low birth weight / length / ofc ,  mild intellectual deficit ,  congenital heart defects ,  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  dysmorphic features  ( asymmetry of the face ,  eyebrow anomalies ,  low - set ,  posteriorally rotated ,  dysplastic ears ,  micro -  / retrognathia )  ,  characteristic thumb abnormalities  ( aplasia ,  hypoplasia )  and skin abnormalities  ( hypo / hyperpigmentation )  .
mosaic trisomy 5 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a variable phenotype ranging from clinically normal to patients presenting intrauterine growth retardation ,  congenital heart anomalies  ( mainly ventricular septal defect )  ,  multiple dysmorphic features  ( e .g .
mosaic trisomy 8 is a chromosomal disorder defined by the presence of three copies of chromosome 8 in some cells of the organism .
mosaic trisomy 10 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  principally characterized by growth delay ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
mosaic trisomy 22 isa chromosome disorder in which chromosome 22 is present three times ,  instead of the usual two times ,  in some cells of the body .
distal trisomy 1p36 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 1 ,  characterized by borderline to mild intellectual disability ,  mild developmental delay ,  metopic craniosynostosis and mild craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
distal trisomy 2p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 2 ,  with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by pre -  and post - natal growth failure ,  global developmental delay ,  facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
distal trisomy 3p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 3 ,  with highly variable phenotype principally characterized by craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
4p16 .3 microduplication syndrome is a rare genetic syndrome that results from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 4 .
distal trisomy 7p is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 7 ,  with highly variable phenotype typically characterized by severe to profound psychomotor delay ,  intellectual disability ,  dysmorphic features  ( incl .
8p inverted duplication / deletion  [ invdupdel ( 8p )  ]  syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized clinically by mild to severe intellectual deficit ,  severe developmental delay  ( psychomotor and speech development )  ,  hypotonia with tendency to develop progressive hypertonia and severe orthopedic problems over time ,  minor facial anomalies and agenesis of the corpus callosum .
distal trisomy 2q is a rare chromosomal anomaly ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 2 ,  characterized by moderate psychomotor delay ,  mild intellectual disability ,  facial dysmorphism  ( high hairline ,  prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  upslanting palpebral fissures ,  large ,  low - set and / or posteriorly rotated ears ,  depressed / broad nasal bridge ,  prominent nasal tip ,  thin upper lip vermillion )  ,  clino -  / camptodactyly and normal or increased body measurements .
3q26 microduplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by prenatal and postnatal growth retardation ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual impairment ,  dysmorphic signs and variable combination of congenital anomalies ,  including cardiovascular ,  genitourinary and skeletal anomalies and spectrum of caudal malformations .
distal trisomy 4q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 4 ,  with highly variable phenotype typically characterized by psychomotor delay ,  intellectual disability ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  low - set ,  prominent ears ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  hypertelorism ,  epicanthic folds ,  broad ,  prominent nasal bridge ,  high arched and cleft palate ,  micro -  / retrognathia )  ,  seizures ,  as well as tooth and digital anomalies  ( clinodactyly ,  polydactyly )  .
distal trisomy 5q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from a partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 5 ,  characterized by short stature ,  moderate intellectual disability ,  and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  flat facies ,  large ,  low - set dysplastic ears ,  down - slanted ,  almond - shaped palpebral fissures ,  hypertelorism ,  epicanthal folds ,  small nose ,  long philtrum ,  small mouth with thin upper lip ,  and micrognathia )  .
distal trisomy 6q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 6 ,  with highly variable phenotype ,  typically characterized by growth and developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  flat facial profile ,  frontal bossing ,  hypertelorism ,  downward - slanting palpebral fissures ,  flat nasal bridge ,  anteverted nares ,  bow shaped mouth ,  micrognathia )  ,  short webbed neck and joint contractures .
distal trisomy 8q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 8 ,  with a highly variable phenotype ,  typically characterized by growth and developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  prominent forehead ,  hypertelorism ,  abnormal palpebral fissures ,  low - set ,  large ears ,  anteverted tip of nose ,  micro / retrognathia )  ,  congenital heart defects and skeletal and limb anomalies .
distal trisomy 9q is a rare chromosomal anomaly ,  resulting from the partial trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 9 ,  with a variable phenotype mostly characterized by psychomotor and speech delay ,  intellectual disability ,  hypotonia ,  long narrow habitus ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
distal trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 10  ( 10q )  is characterized by pre -  and postnatal growth retardation ,  a pattern of specific facial features ,  hypotonia ,  and developmental and psychomotor delay .
distal trisomy 11q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 11 ,  with high phenotypic variability principally characterized by craniofacial dysmorphism  ( brachycephaly / plagiocephaly ,  low - set ,  posteriorly rotated ears ,  short philtrum ,  micrognathia )  and intellectual disability .
distal trisomy 13q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 13 ,  with variable phenotype principally characterized by intellectual disability ,  psychomotor delay ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
distal trisomy 16q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 16 ,  with variable phenotype principally characterized by developmental delay ,  severe intellectual disability ,  hypotonia ,  facial dysmorphism  ( incl .
distal trisomy 20q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 20 ,  with high phenotypic variability mostly characterized by neurodevelopmental delay ,  cardiac malformations  ( e .g .
distal trisomy 22q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 22 ,  with variable phenotype principally characterized by varying degrees of intellectual disabilty and developmental delay ,  pre -  and postnatal growth deficiency ,  hypotonia ,  and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
non - distal trisomy 9q is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 9 ,  with a highly variable phenotype principally characterized by developmental delay ,  short stature ,  intellectual disability ,  and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( e .g .
distal monosomy 19p13 .3 is a rare chromosomal anomaly associated with a wide range of phenotypic features depending on the size of the deletion .
distal monosomy 14q is a rare chromosomal anomaly associated with various phenotypic features depending on the size of the deletion .
monosomy 13q34 is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 13 ,  principally characterized by global developmental delay ,  mild intellectual disability ,  obesity and mild craniofacial dysmorphism  ( microcephaly ,  wide rectangular forehead ,  downslanting palpebral fissures ,  mild ptosis ,  prominent nose with long nasal bridge and broad tip ,  small chin )  .
gene expression cluster 2 as determined by recognition of outliers by sampling ends  ( rose )  in high - risk b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
gene expression cluster 3 as determined by recognition of outliers by sampling ends  ( rose )  in high - risk b - precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
ring chromosome 13 is a chromosomal anomaly of chromosome 13 characterized by a widely variable phenotype  ( ranging from mild to severe )  principally characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  developmental delay ,  short stature ,  moderate to severe intellectual deficit ,  microcephaly ,  facial dysmorphism  ( i .e .
ring chromosome 15 is a chromosome abnormality that affects growth ,  learning ,  and speech .
ring chromosome 16 is characterized bypostnatal growthdeficiency ,  intellectual disability ,  microcephaly ,  broad flat nasal bridge ,  down - turned mouth ,  low - set and dysmorphic  ( abnormally - shaped )  ears and speech delay .to date ,  less than 10 cases have been reported in the medical literature .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 2 is an uniparental disomy of maternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only mother is a carrier .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 4 is an uniparental disomy of maternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only mother is a carrier .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 6 is an uniparental disomy of maternal origin characterized by intrauterine growth retardation .
silver - russell syndrome due to maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 7 is a genetic malformation syndrome with short stature characterized by severe prenatal and postnatal growth retardation ,  feeding difficulties ,  body asymmetry ,  dysmorphic craniofacial features  ( triangular - shaped face ,  relative macrocephaly ,  frontal bossing ,  micrognathia ,  down - turned corners of the mouth )  and other anomalies  ( fifth finger clinodactyly ,  caf au lait macules ,  male genital anomalies ,  mild developmental delay and / or speech delay with movement disorders )  .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 9 is an uniparental disomy of maternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only mother is a carrier .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 14 is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterized by prenatal and postnatal growth retardation ,  hypotonia ,  motor delay ,  early puberty ,  obesity ,  short adult stature ,  small hands and feet ,  mild intellectual disability ,  and mild dysmorphic facial features  ( frontal bossing ,  short nose with wide nasal tip ,  micrognathia ,  high palate ,  short philtrum )  .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 20  ( upd 20 )  is a very rare chromosomal anomaly in which both copies of chromosome 20 are inherited from the mother .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 5 is an uniparental disomy of paternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only father is a carrier .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 6 is an uniparental disomy of paternal origin characterized by intrauterine growth retardation ,  transient neonatal diabetes mellitus ,  and macroglossia .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 7 is an uniparental disomy of paternal origin that most likely do not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only father is a carrier  ( e .g . ,  cystic fibrosis ,  congenital chloride diarrhea ,  sensorineural hearing loss )  .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 20 is a very rare chromosomal anomaly in which both copies of chromosome 20 are inherited from the father .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 21 is an uniparental disomy of paternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only father is a carrier .
x small rings is a rare chromosome x structural anomaly ,  with highly variable phenotype ,  principally characterized by developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  short stature ,  craniofacial dysmorphism  ( incl .
an adenoma or carcinoma of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that produces growth hormone .
the 48 , xxxy syndrome represents a chromosomal anomaly of the aneuploidic type characterized by the presence of two extra x chromosomes in males .
the 49 , xxxxy syndrome represents a chromosomal anomaly of the aneuploidic type characterized by the presence of three extra x chromosomes in males .
isolated partial vaginal agenesis is a rare ,  non - syndromic urogenital tract malformation characterized by the absence of a vagina or the presence of a vaginal dimple shorter than 5 cm .
acromegaly is an acquired disorder related to excessive production of growth hormone  ( gh )  and characterized by progressive somatic disfigurement  ( mainly involving the face and extremities )  and systemic manifestations .
the chromosomal constitution of a cell containing multiples of the normal number of chromosomes ;  includes triploidy  ( symbol: 3n )  ,  tetraploidy  ( symbol: 4n )  ,  etc .
hypertrichosis - acromegaloid facial appearance syndrome  ( haff )  is a very rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome manifesting from birth with progressive hypertrichosis congenita terminalis  ( thick scalp hair extending onto the forehead with generalized increased body hair )  associated with a typical acromegaloid facial appearance  ( thick eyebrows ,  prominent supraorbital ridges ,  broad nasal bridge ,  anteverted nares ,  long and large philtrum ,  and prominent mouth with full lips )  appearing during childhood .
hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy ,  type 2  ( hsan2 )  is an inherited disorder characterized by profound and universal sensory loss involving large and small fiber nerves ,  and marked hypotonia .
a muscle tissue disease characterized by congenital joint contractures of hand and feet .
hereditary continuous muscle fiber activity is a rare ,  non - dystrophic myopathy characterized by generalized myokymia and increased muscle tone associated with delayed motor milestones ,  leg stiffness ,  spastic gait ,  hyperreflexia and babinski sign .
eisenmenger syndrome  ( es )  is an form of pulmonary arterial hypertension  ( pah )  associated with unoperated congenital heart disease and is characterized by congenital heart malformations with reversed or bi - directional shunting through an intra - cardiac or intervascular  ( usually aorto - pulmonary )  communication with the development of pah .
solar urticaria  ( su )  is a rare and difficult to treat photosensitive disease ,  in which local skin swelling occurs within minutes of exposure to natural sunlight or even artificial light sources emitting ultraviolet radiation .
ligneous conjunctivitis  ( lc )  is a rare form of chronic conjunctivitis characterised by the recurrent formation of pseudomembranous lesions most commonly on the palpebral surfaces .
an autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the cav3 gene ,  encoding caveolin - 3 .
reducing body myopathy  ( rbm )  is a rare muscle disorder marked by progressive muscle weakness and the presence of characteristic inclusion bodies in affected muscle fibres .
a muscular dystrophy that is characterized by diminished muscle tone  ( hypotonia )  ,  progressive muscle weakness and degeneration  ( atrophy )  ,  abnormally fixed joints ,  spinal rigidity ,  and delays in reaching motor milestones such as sitting or standing unassisted .
rigid spine syndrome  ( rss )  is a slowly progressive childhood - onset congenital muscular dystrophy characterized by contractures of the spinal extensor muscles associated with abnormal posture  ( limitation of neck and trunk flexure )  ,  progressive scoliosis of the spine ,  early marked cervico - axial muscle weakness with relatively preserved strength and function of the extremities and progressive respiratory insufficiency .
pancreatic endocrine tumor ,  also known as pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor  ( pnet )  ,  describes a group of endocrine tumors originating in the pancreas that are usually indolent and benign ,  but may have the potential to be malignant .
6cm and approximately 1 / 3 have metastasized at the time of diagnosis .
an acute inflammatory process affecting the brain parenchyma .
ppoma is a type of pancreatic endocrine tumor that hypersecretes pancreatic polypeptide  ( pp )  but that does not cause a hypersecretion syndrome  ( is non - functioning )  and instead presents with only non - specific symptoms such as weight loss ,  abdominal pain ,  jaundice ,  diarrhea and / or an abdominal mass ,  hence leading to a late diagnosis .
glucagonoma is a rare ,  functioning type of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor  ( pnet )  that hypersecretes glucagon ,  leading to a syndrome comprised of necrolytic migratory erythema ,  diabetes mellitus ,  anemia ,  weight loss ,  mucosal abnormalities ,  thromboembolism ,  gastrointestinal and neuropsychiatric symptoms .
vipoma is an extremely rare type of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor that secretes vasoactive intestinal polypeptide  ( vip )  leading to the manifestations of watery diarrhea ,  hypokalemia and achlorhydia or hypochhlorhydia  ( known as wdha syndrome )  .
a lymphoma primarily involving the thyroid gland .
a neuroendocrine neoplasm that involves the bronchus .
thymic endocrine tumor is a rare ,  malignant ,  primary thymic neoplasm originating from neuroendocrine cells ,  presenting as a mass within the anterior mediastinum .
any of the forms of ovarian benign neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
kienbock disease is a rare bone disorder of unknown etiology characterized clinically by osteonecrosis of the carpal lunate ,  eventually leading to collapse of the lunate bone impacting wrist function .
panner's disease is an osteochondrosis of the capitellum of the humerus ,  characterised by involvement of the dominant upper limb and onset before the age of 10 years .
sinding - larsen - johansson disease is a type of osteochondrosis affecting the attachment of the patellar tendon to the patella and characterised by tenderness and localized swelling of the patella .
persistent placoid maculopathy is characterised by white plaque - like lesions involving the macula but sparing the peripapillary areas of both eyes .
pellagra is a nutritional disorder caused by a deficiency in niacin  ( vitamin b3 )  or its precursor  ( tryptophan )  that is mainly observed in asia and africa where it is generally due to poor nutrition .
conditions characterized by persistent brain damage or dysfunction as sequelae of cranial trauma .
parkinsonism with dementia of guadeloupe is characterised by symmetrical bradykinesia ,  predominantly axial rigidity ,  postural instability with early falls and cognitive decline with prominent features of frontal lobe dysfunction .
robinow syndrome  ( rs )  is a rare genetic syndrome characterized by limb shortening and abnormalities of the head ,  face and external genitalia .
unilateral renal hypoplasia is a form of renal hypoplasia ,  a renal developmental anomaly in which one kidney is small and has a deficit in the number of nephrons present .
bilateral renal hypoplasia is a form of renal hypoplasia ,  a renal developmental anomaly in which both kidneys are small and have a deficit in the number of nephrons present .
unilateral multicystic dysplastic kidney is the form of multicystic dysplastic kidney  ( mcdk )  ,  a congenital anomaly of the kidney and urinary tract  ( cakut )  ,  in which one kidney is large ,  distended by multiple cysts ,  and non - functional .
bilateral multicystic dysplastic kidney  ( mcdk )  is a lethal form of multicystic dysplastic kidney  ( mcdk )  ,  a congenital anomaly of the kidney and urinary tract  ( cakut )  ,  in which both kidneys are large ,  distended by non - communicating multiple cysts and non - functional .
'renal tubular dysgenesis due to twin - twin transfusion syndrome  ( ttts )  is an acquired form of renal tubular dysgenesis that develops in donor fetuses due to the uneven shunting of growth factor and nutrients to the kidney of the recipient and is characterized by absent or poorly developed proximal tubules ,  persistent oligohydramnios and consequently the potter sequence  ( facial dysmorphism with large and flat low - set ears ,  lung hypoplasia ,  arthrogryposis and limb positioning defects )  .'
pauci - immune glomerulonephritis  ( gn )  with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies  ( anca )  is a form of rapidly progressive gn comprising about 90% of pauci - immune glomerulonephritis ,  and associated with the presence of circulating anca  ( mostly directed against proteinase - 3  ( pr3 )  and myeloperoxidase  ( mpo )  )  .
pauci - immune glomerulonephritis  ( gn )  without antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies  ( anca )  is a form of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis comprising 10 - 43% of pauci - immune glomerulonephritis and characterized by the absence of anca .
non - amyloid fibrillary glomerulopathy  ( non - amyloid fgp )  is a rare cause of glomerulonephritis  ( gn )  characterized by glomerular accumulation of non - amyloid fibrils in the mesangium and the glomerular  ( and rarely tubular )  basement membrane ,  that mainly presents with renal insufficiency ,  micro - hematuria and nephrotic range proteinuria .
immunotactoid glomerulopathy  ( itg )  is a very rare condition characterized by glomerular accumulation of microtubules in the mesangium and the glomerular basement membrane ,  that mainly presents with proteinuria ,  micro - hematuria ,  nephrotic syndrome ,  renal insufficiency and hematologic malignancy .
pseudohypoparathyroidism  ( php )  is a heterogeneous group of endocrine disorders characterized by normal renal function and resistance to the action of parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  ,  manifesting with hypocalcemia ,  hyperphosphatemia and elevated pth levels and that includes the subtypes php type 1a  ( php - 1a )  ,  php type 1b  ( php - 1b )  ,  php type 1c  ( php - 1c )  ,  php type 2  ( php - 2 )  and pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism  ( pphp )  .
maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 13 is an uniparental disomy of maternal origin that most likely do not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only mother is a carrier .
peripheral resistance to thyroid hormones may be a cause of permanent congenital hypothyroidism ,  a permanent thyroid hormone deficiency that is present from birth .
rare heart disease .
rare respiratory system disease .
rare eye disease .
rare endocrine system disease .
unilateral absence of the pulmonary artery  ( uapa )  is a rare congenital great vessels anomaly that commonly presents by dyspnea ,  frequent respiratory infections ,  hemoptysis and high - altitude pulmonary edema .
rare immune system disease .
rare nervous system disease .
a infectious disease that involves the nervous system .
rare headache disorder .
a rare form of cardiovascular disease .
any of the forms of otorhinolaryngologic disease that have a rare incidence .
rare infertility .
rare male infertility .
rare female infertility .
rare allergic hypersensitivity disease .
rare respiratory allergy .
rare genetic heart disease .
rare disease of cellular proliferation .
rare urinary system benign neoplasm .
any of the forms of digestive system neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
any of the forms of respiratory tract neoplasm that have a rare incidence .
rare nervous system cancer .
rare female reproductive system neoplasm .
differences of sex development in individuals with 46 , xy karyotype .
internal carotid artery  ( ica )  agenesis  ( uni or bilateral )  is a developmental defect that may be asymptomatic or lead to cerebrovascular lesions .
a chromosomal anomaly that involves an autosome .
a chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of one chromosome in addition to the normal diploid number .
pulmonary valve agenesis is a rare congenital heart malformation characterized by a total or partial absence of the pulmonary valve leaflets associated with stenosis of the pulmonary artery orifice and aneurysmal dilatation of the pulmonary arteries .
a dystonia that is combined with another movement disorder  ( e .g . ,  myoclonus ,  parkinsonism )  .
the ehlersdanlos syndromes  ( eds )  are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of heritable connective tissue disorders  ( hctds )  characterized by joint hypermobility ,  skin hyperextensibility ,  and tissue fragility .
an acute infectious process that affects the brain tissue .
chronic form of encephalitis .
a epilepsy syndrome that occurs between 28 days to one year of life . .
a epilepsy syndrome that occurs during childhood .
a rare group of disorders characterized by the development of myoclonic and tonic - clonic epileptic seizures associated with progressive degeneration of the nervous system .
a clonal hematopoietic stem cell disorder ,  characterized by proliferation in the bone marrow of one or more of the myeloid  ( i .e . ,  granulocytic ,  erythroid ,  megakaryocytic ,  and mast cell )  lineages .
clonal myeloid disorders that possess both dysplastic and proliferative features but are not properly classified as either myelodysplastic syndromes or myeloproliferative disorders .
a group of acute myeloid leukemias characterized by recurrent genetic abnormalities ,  mainly balanced translocations .
a dendritic cell tumor develops from the cells of the immune system .
genetic lipodystrophy .
familial partial lipodystrophy  ( fpld )  is a group of rare genetic lipodystrophic syndromes characterized ,  in most cases ,  by fat loss from the limbs and buttocks ,  from childhood or early adulthood ,  and often associated with acanthosis nigricans ,  insulin resistance ,  diabetes ,  hypertriglyceridemia and liver steatosis .
an instance of lipodystrophy  ( disease )  that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
autosomal dominant form of isolated diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma .
autosomal dominant form of disease with diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma as a major feature .
autosomal dominant form of disease with focal palmoplantar keratoderma as a major feature .
autosomal recessive form of isolated diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma .
autosomal recessive form of disease with focal palmoplantar keratoderma as a major feature .
rare hemolytic anemia .
a group of inherited hemolytic anemias caused by erythrocyte membrane defects .
autoimmune hemolytic anemia  ( aiha )  is an autoimmune disorder in which various types of auto - antibodies are directed against red blood cells causing their survival to be shortened and resulting in hemolytic anemia .
an uncommon congenital abnormality characterized by either lethal complete absence of the lungs or varying degrees of underdevelopment of the lung parenchyma .
secondary polycythemia is an elevated absolute red blood cell mass caused by enhanced stimulation of red blood cell production by an otherwise normal erythroid lineage that may be congenital or acquired  ( congenital secondary polycythemia and acquired secondary polycythemia )  .
any of the forms of blood coagulation disease that have a rare incidence .
a syndromic intellectual disability with an x - linked mode of inheritance .
a disease involving the skeletal muscle tissue .
muscular dystrophy  ( md )  refers to a group of more than 30 genetic diseases characterized by progressive weakness and degeneration of the skeletal muscles that control movement .some forms of md are seen in newborns ,  infants or children ,  while others have late - onset and may not appear until middle age or later .
an umbrella term for diseases which have chronic muscle inflammation and weakness of unknown etiology .
a group of rare inherited disorders characterized by a deficiency of enzymes that are involved in metabolic pathways that affect muscles .
conditions characterized by impaired transmission of impulses at the neuromuscular junction .
an instance of neuromuscular junction disease that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
rare peripheral neuropathy .
genetic peripheral neuropathy .
a disease involving the motor neuron .
an instance of motor neuron disease that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
pontocerebellar hypoplasias  ( pch )  are a rare heterogeneous group of diseases characterized by hypoplasia and atrophy and / or early neurodegeneration of the cerebellum and pons .
a aniridia that is part of a larger syndrome .
any of the forms of eyelid disease that have a rare incidence .
a congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a continuous layer of skin extending over the eyeballs and the absence of eyelids and the palpebral fissure .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the skin of eyelid .
a benign neoplasm that involves the skin of eyelid .
a precancerous condition that involves the skin of eyelid .
a cancer that involves the skin of eyelid .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the sebaceous gland of eyelid .
a lentigo that involves the skin of eyelid .
a melanocytic nevus that involves the skin of eyelid .
any of the forms of lacrimal apparatus disease that have a rare incidence .
rare conjunctival disease .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the conjunctiva .
rare isolated myopia is a rare ,  genetic ,  refraction anomaly disorder characterized by non - syndromic severe myopia ,  which may be associated with cataract and vitreoretinal degeneration  ( retinal detachment )  that may lead to blindness .
a myopia  ( disease )  that is part of a larger syndrome .
a hyperopia that is part of a larger syndrome .
a keratoconus  ( disease )  that is part of a larger syndrome .
the superficial corneal dystrophies refer to a group of rare genetically determined corneal dystrophies  ( cds )  characterized by lesions affecting the corneal epithelium and its basement membrane and the superficial corneal stroma ,  and variable effects on vision depending on the type of dystrophy .
the stromal corneal dystrophies refer to a group of rare genetically determined corneal dystrophies  ( cds )  characterized by lesions affecting the corneal stroma ,  and variable effects on vision depending on the type of dystrophy .
posterior corneal dystrophies refers to a group of rare genetically determined corneal dystrophies  ( cds )  characterized by lesions affecting the corneal endothelium and descemet membrane ,  and variable effects on vision depending on the type of dystrophy .
a corneal dystrophy  ( disease )  that is part of a larger syndrome .
a hereditary disease that is associated with congenital ocular anomalies such as conditions associated with mesodermal dysgenesis of the neural crest ,  phakomatoses characterized by hamartomas ,  metabolic disorders ,  mitotic disorders ,  and other congenital disorders and associated with acquired conditions such as tumors ,  uveitis ,  and trauma .
rare cataract .
a cataract  ( disease )  that is part of a larger syndrome .
partial or complete displacement of the crystalline lens from its normal position in the eye .
a retinitis pigmentosa that is part of a larger syndrome .
macular dystrophy that is related to a change in a gene .
an autosomal dominant hereditary condition characterized by optic atrophy and progressive visual loss .
oculomotor palsy that arises from lesions in the supranuclear pathways controlling extraocular movement .
a ichthyosis associated with ocular features that is part of a larger syndrome .
albinism that affects the eyes ,  including ocular albinism and oculocutaneous albinism .
an inflammatory process affecting a part of or the entire uvea .
a spectrum of septal defects involving the atrial septum ;  ventricular septum ;  and the atrioventricular valves  ( tricuspid valve ;  bicuspid valve )  .
hypoplastic right - heart syndrome  ( hrhs )  is a rare ,  cyanotic congenital heart malformation caused by underdevelopment of the right - sided heart structures  ( tricuspid valve ,  rv ,  pulmonary valve ,  and pulmonary artery )  commonly associated with an atrial septal defect ,  ostium secundum type .
aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen - rich blood to the right atrium .
an abnormal ,  epithelial - lined connection between an artery and vein that is present at the time of birth .
autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy  ( adnfle )  is a seizure disorder characterized by intermittent dystonia and / or choreoathetoid movements that occur during sleep .
isochromosomy yp is a rare gonosome anomaly characterized by various clinical presentations including normal healthy fertile males ,  male phenotype with infertility ,  and males with ambiguous genitalia or incomplete masculinization .
isochromosomy yq is a rare gonosomy anomaly with a variable phenotype including a female phenotype with sexual development delay ,  streak gonads ,  short stature and turner syndrome features and male phenotype with infertility due to azoospermia .
tibial hemimelia - polysyndactyly - triphalangeal thumb syndrome is a rare ,  genetic dysostosis syndrome ,  with marked inter -  and intra - familial variation ,  typically characterized by triphalangeal thumbs ,  hand and / or foot polysyndactyly and / or absent / hypoplastic tibiae  ( associated with duplication of fibulae in some cases )  ,  although isolated triphalangeal thumbs have also been reported .
benign childhood occipital epilepsy ,  panayiotopoulos type is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by late infancy to early - adolescence onset of prolonged ,  nocturnal seizures which begin with autonomic features  ( e .g .
benign childhood occipital epilepsy ,  gastaut type is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by childhood to mid - adolescence onset of frequent ,  brief ,  diurnal simple partial seizures which usually begin with visual hallucinations  ( e .g .
familial focal epilepsy with variable foci is a rare genetic epilepsy disorder characterized by autosomal dominant lesional and nonlesional focal epilepsy with variable penetrance .
a myelodysplastic / myeloproliferative neoplasm which is characterized by persistent monocytosis ,  absence of a philadelphia chromosome and bcr / abl fusion gene ,  fewer than 20 percent blasts in the bone marrow and blood ,  myelodysplasia ,  and absence of pdgfra or pdgfrb rearrangement .
unclassified myelodysplastic syndrome  ( mds - u )  is a subtype of myelodysplastic syndrome  ( mds )  with atypical features of uncertain clinical significance .
acute myelomonocytic leukemia  ( amml )  is a cancer that typically develops in the bone marrow and blood of older individuals .amml is one type of acute myeloid leukemia ,  a group of blood cancers that occur when the amount of white blood cells increases rapidly .
an acute myeloid leukemia associated with t ( 9 ; 11 )  ( p22 .3 ; q23 .3 )  and mllt3 - kmt2a fusion protein expression .
an acute myeloid leukemia  ( aml )  characterized by blasts with evidence of maturation to more mature neutrophils .
a rare acute leukemia of ambiguous lineage in which the blasts do not express markers specific to myeloid or lymphoid lineage .
an acute leukemia of ambiguous lineage characterized by blasts which coexpress myeloid and t or b lineage antigens or concurrent b and t lineage antigens .
a large b - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma arising in the mediastinum .
intravascular large b - cell lymphoma  ( ivlbcl )  is a very rare form of diffuse large b - cell lymphoma characterized by the selective growth of lymphoma cells within the lumina of small blood vessels  ( especially the capillaries )  that most often presents with a wide range of clinical manifestations  ( as potentially any tissue can be involved )  ,  with patients from western countries more frequently manifesting with neurological and cutaneous symptoms while patients from asian countries more frequently displaying hepatosplenomegaly and thrombocytopenia .
anaplastic large cell lymphoma  ( alcl )  is a rare and aggressive peripheral t - cell non - hodgkin lymphoma ,  belonging to the group of cd30 - positive lymphoproliferative disorders ,  which affects lymph nodes and extranodal sites .
lymphomatoid papulosis  ( lyp )  is a rare cutaneous condition characterized by chronic ,  recurrent ,  and self - regressing papulonodular skin eruptions .
indolent systemic mastocytosis  ( ism )  is a benign form of systemic mastocytosis  ( sm )  characterized by an abnormal proliferation of mast cells either only in bone marrow or in numerous tissues .
systemic mastocytosis with an associated clonal hematological non - mast cell lineage disease is a form of systemic mastocytosis  ( sm )  associated with malignancy  ( other than mast cell leukemia )  .
aggressive systemic mastocytosis  ( asm )  is a severe and rare form of systemic mastocytosis  ( sm )  characterized by considerable infiltration of mast cells in different tissues .
mast cell leukemia is a malignant form of systemic mastocytosis  ( sm )  characterized ,  most of the time ,  by the presence of circulating mast cells .
autosomal dominant form of emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy .
congenital dyserythropoietic anemiatype i  ( cda i )  is a hematologic disorder of erythropoiesis characterized by moderate to severe macrocytic anemia occasionally associated with limb or nail deformities and scoliosis .
adult pure red cell aplasia is a rare acquired aplastic anemia characterized by a severe normocytic anemia with normal peripheral leukocyte and platelet counts ,  reticulocytopenia ,  high serum ferritin and transferrin saturation levels and isolated ,  almost complete absence of erythroblasts in the bone marrow with normal granulopoesis and megakaryopoesis .
periventricular nodular heterotopia  ( pnh )  is a brain malformation ,  due to abnormal neuronal migration ,  in which a subset of neurons fails to migrate into the developing cerebral cortex and remains as nodules that line the ventricular surface .
acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy  ( aidp )  is an inflammatory neuropathy belonging to the clinical spectrum of guillain - barrc )  syndrome  ( gbs )  .
acute motor - sensory axonal neuropathy  ( amsan )  is a motor - sensory ,  axonal form of guillain - barrc )  syndrome  ( gbs )  .
acute motor axonal neuropathy  ( aman )  is a pure motor axonal form of guillain - barrc )  syndrome  ( gbs )  .
blake pouch cyst is a non - syndromic ,  usually benign ,  cystic malformation of the posterior fossa characterized by a midline outpouching of the superior medullary velum into the cisterna magna that results from failure of the rudimental fourth ventricular tela choroidea to regress during embryogenesis .
multiple system atrophy ,  parkinsonian type  ( msa - p )  is a form of multiple system atrophy  ( msa )  with predominant parkinsonian features  ( bradykinesia ,  rigidity ,  irregular jerky postural tremor ,  and postural instability )  .
coloboma of choroid and retina is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis characterized by the partial absence of retinal pigment epithelium and choroid ,  most frequently located in the inferonasal quadrant .
a congenital or acquired defect characterized by the presence of a hole in or adjacent to the iris .
a congenital abnormality in which a part of the upper or lower eyelid tissue is missing .
coloboma of optic disc is a rare ,  genetic ,  developmental defect of the eye characterized by a unilateral or bilateral ,  sharply demarcated ,  bowl - shaped ,  glistening white excavation on the optic disc  ( typically decentered inferiorly )  which usually manifests with varying degrees of reduced visual acuity .
inverse marcus - gunn phenomenon is a rare congenital synkinesis where jaw opening by the pterygoid muscle  ( during eating or yawning )  causes eyelid drooping from inhibition of the oculomotor nerve to the levator palpebrae superioris .
posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy  ( ppcd )  is a rare mild subtype of posterior corneal dystrophy characterized by small aggregates of apparent vesicles bordered by a gray haze at the level of descemet membrane ,  generally with no effect on vision .
congenital hereditary endothelial dystrophy i  ( ched i )  is a rare subtype of posterior corneal dystrophy characterized by a diffuse ground - glass appearance of the corneas and marked corneal thickening from birth or infancy without nystagmus ,  with blurred vision .
congenital glaucoma  ( cg )  is a developmental glaucoma that results from the abnormal development of the aqueous drainage structure ,  characterized by an elevated intra - ocular pressure ,  enlargement of globe  ( buphthalmos )  ,  corneal edema and optic nerve cupping ,  and presenting clinically with the characteristic triad of epiphora ,  photophobia and blepharospasm .
juvenile glaucoma  ( jg )  is a rare autosomal dominant open angle glaucoma ,  characterized by early onset ,  severe elevation of intra ocular pressure of rapid progression ,  leading to optic nerve excavation and ,  when untreated ,  substantial visual impairment .
axenfeld's anomaly is a rare congenital ocular defect caused by anterior segment dysgenesis and is characterized by anteriorly displaced schwalbebs line and iris bands extending into the cornea .
chandler syndrome ,  the most frequent clinical variant of iridocorneal endothelial  ( ice )  syndrome ,  is characterized by very few iris abnormalities but more severe corneal edema and less severe secondary glaucoma than seen in the other two ice syndrome variants: cogan - reese syndrome and essential iris atrophy .
cogan - reese syndrome is a clinical variant of iridocorneal endothelial  ( ice )  syndrome characterized by variable iris atrophy ,  pigmented and pedunculated nodules on the iris and corneal abonormalities .
essential iris atrophy is a clinical variant of iridocorneal endothelial  ( ice )  syndrome ,  characterized by progressive iris atrophy and holes present on the surface of the iris ,  corneal edema ,  corectopia ,  uveal ectropion and anterior synechiae .
cerulean cataract is a type of hereditary congenital cataract distinguished by bluish and white opacifications in the superficial layers of the fetal lens nucleus and adult lens nucleus and characterized by reduced visual acuity in childhood ,  eventually necessitating extraction of the lens .
autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia  ( adca )  describes a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative diseases characterized by a slowly progressive ataxia of gait ,  stance and limbs ,  dysarthria and / or oculomotor disorder ,  due to cerebellar degeneration in the absence of coexisting diseases .
butterfly - shaped pigment dystrophy is a patterned dystrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium characterized by abnormal accumulation of lipofuscin in a butterfly - shaped distribution at the retinal pigment epithelium level .
multifocal pattern dystrophy simulating fundus flavimaculatus is a patterned dystrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium characterized by multiple yellowish irregular flecks scattered or interconnected around the macula ,  simulating what is observed in stargardt disease ,  and usually asymptomatic until adulthood when patients present with a slowly progressive loss of vision that often only becomes apparent in old age .
fundus pulverulentus is a rare form of patterned dystrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium characterized by a granular appearance in the macula ,  with coarse and punctiform mottling of the retinal pigment epithelium within the macular region .
niemann - pick disease ,  type e is a poorly defined adult - onset and non - neuronopathic form of niemann - pick disease .
pulmonary artery coming from the aorta  ( paca )  is a cardiac malformation characterized by anomalous origin of one branch of the pulmonary arteries from the ascending aorta and a normal origin of the other pulmonary artery from the right ventricular outflow tract ,  and presenting with respiratory distress ,  congestive heart failure and failure to thrive within the first days / months of life .
a congenital cardiovascular malformation of the pulmonary valve in which there is narrowing or stricture  ( obstruction to flow )  .
anomaly of the tricuspid valve chordae is a rare ,  congenital anomaly of the tricuspid subvalvular apparatus characterized by aberrant tendinous chords ,  which insert at the clear zone of the leaflet instead of its free edge and connect to the endocardium instead of the papillary muscles .
parachute tricuspid valve is a rare congenital heart malformation defined as an insertion of the chordal apparatus into a single papillary muscle or a muscle group ,  making a pathognomonic 'pear' shape sign in the four - chamber echocardiographic view with the atrium forming the larger base of the pear and the leaflets the apex .
congenital mitral stenosis is a congenital heart malformation comprising a spectrum of morphologically heterogeneous developmental anomalies that result in functional and anatomic obstruction of inflow into the left ventricle .
hypoplasia of the mitral valve annulus is a rare ,  congenital ,  mitral valve malformation characterized by hypoplastic annulus which usually appears within a complete mitral valve hypoplasia ,  causing mitral valve stenosis .
congenital supravalvular mitral ring is a rare ,  congenital ,  mitral valve malformation characterized by an abnormal ridge of the connective tissue on the atrial side of the mitral valve ,  which can present clinically with signs and symptoms of left ventricle inflow obstruction  ( dyspnea ,  tachypnea ,  pulmonary hypertension ,  right ventricle hypertrophy ,  pulmonary edema )  .
congenital unguarded mitral orifice is a rare ,  congenital ,  mitral valve malformation characterized by complete absence of mitral valve leaflets and tensor apparatus at the mitral annulus ,  which can present clinically with cyanosis ,  heart murmur ,  electrocardiogram abnormalities ,  mild cardiomegaly ,  or congestive heart failure .
accessory mitral valve tissue is a congenital non - syndromic heart malformation defined as an accessory mitral valve leaflet or various accessory mitral valve structures .
mitral valve agenesis is a rare congenital heart malformation defined as an agenesis or severe hypoplasia of both mitral valve leaflets  ( complete agenesis )  or one of the leaflets  ( partial agenesis )  .
a congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the presence of subvalvar left ventricular outflow tract obstruction ,  coarctation of the aorta ,  and mitral stenosis .
congenital patent ductus arteriosus aneurysm is a rare ,  congenital ,  arterial duct anomaly characterized by a saccular dilatation of the ductus arteriosus .
encircling double aortic arch is a very rare congenital anomaly of the great arteries characterized by the presence of two aortic arches  ( right and left )  which encircle and compress the trachea and esophagus ,  resulting in various respiratory and gastrointestinal symptoms  ( e .g .
kommerell diverticulum  ( kd )  is a developmental anomaly of the aortic arch characterized by a diverticulum at the proximal descending aorta of left or right arch configuration that gives rise to an aberrant subclavian artery .
neuhauser anomaly is a rare cardiovascular morphological anomaly due to maldevelopment of embryonal aorta resulting in right aortic arch and left ligamentum arteriosum characterized by tracheoesophageal compression symptoms  ( stridor ,  dyspnea ,  dysphagia ,  apnoeic episodes ,  recurrent respiratory infections )  .
an anatomic abnormality that occurs during embryonic development ,  in which the aortic arch is right - sided .
narrowing of the lumen of the right or left pulmonary artery branch .
aortopulmonary coronary arterial course is a rare coronary artery congenital malformation characterized by anomalous origin of the coronary artery from the contralateral sinus of valsalva with course between the aorta and the pulmonary artery .
intramural coronary arterial course is a rare coronary artery congenital malformation disorder characterized by an atypical course of a coronary artery  ( usually proximal left anterior descending artery )  in which ,  for a variable length ,  the artery runs intramyocardally .
malposition of the coronary ostium is a rare coronary artery congenital malformation characterized by displacement of one of the coronary arteries ,  originating closer to the aortic root or to the commissural area .
laubry - pezzi syndrome is a rare ,  non - syndromic ,  congenital heart malformation characterized by the prolapse of an aortic valve cusp into a subjacent ventricular septal defect due to venturi effect ,  resulting in aortic regurgitation .
cor triatriatum sinister  ( cts )  results when the left atrium is divided into two compartments by a membrane .
juxtaposition of the atrial appendages is a rare atrial appendage anomaly when both appendages are located on the left or the right side of the great arteries .
ectasia of the right atrial appendage is a rare cardiac malformation characterized by the enlargement of the right auricle without any other associated cardiac lesions .
ectasia of the left atrial appendage is a rare cardiac malformation characterized by the enlargement of the left auricle without any other associated cardiac lesions .
a persistent opening in the atrial septum after birth .
persistent left superior vena cava connecting to the left - sided atrium is a rare ,  congenital vascular malformation of the major vessels characterized by a persitent left superior vena cava which drains directly to the left atrium ,  without passing through the coronary sinus  ( that may be absent in some cases )  .
right superior vena cava connecting to the left - sided atrium is a rare ,  congenital vascular malformation of the major vessels characterized by the right svc passing medially and dorsally to the aortic root and draining into the left atrium .
absence of innominate vein is a rare congenital anomaly of the great veins characterized by absence of the left brachiocephalic vein  ( or innominate vein )  ,  resulting in an anomalous venous vasculature .
subaortic course of innominate vein is a rare congential anomaly of the great veins characterized by an anomalous course of the left brachiocephalic vein ,  passing from left to right below the aortic arch and entering the superior vena cava below the orifice of the azygos vein .
agenesis of the superior vena cava  ( svc )  is a rare congenital anomaly of the great veins characterized by unilateral or bilateral complete absence of the svc .
partial pulmonary venous return  ( papvr )  is a form of congenital pulmonary venous return where one or a few of the pulmonary veins drain into the right atrium or one of its tributaries instead of the left atrium .
congenital complete agenesis of pericardium is a rare ,  mostly asymptomatic ,  congenital heart malformation characterized by the complete absence of the entire pericardium ,  or by the absence of either the right  ( uncommon )  or left pericardium .
congenital partial agenesis of pericardium is a rare ,  mostly asymptomatic ,  congenital heart malformation mainly characterized by the partial absence of the left pericardium .
pleuro - pericardial cyst is a rare ,  mostly congenital ,  pericardium anomaly characterized by the presence of ,  usually asymptomatic ,  cysts which are typically located in the right costophrenic angle and are usually incidentally diagnosed .
hemolytic anemia due to erythrocyte adenosine deaminase overproduction is a rare ,  genetic ,  hematologic disease characterized by mild ,  chronic hemolytic anemia  ( due to highly elevated adenosine deaminase activity in red blood cells resulting in their premature destruction )  ,  elevated reticulocyte count ,  splenomegaly and mild hyperbilirubinemia .
acquired von willebrand syndrome  ( avws )  is a bleeding disorder marked by the same biological anomalies as those seen in hereditary von willebrand disease  ( vwd )  but which occurs in association with another underlying pathology ,  generally in elderly patients without any personal or family history of bleeding anomalies .
tarsal kink syndrome is a rare congenital malformation of the tarsus that causes entropion characterized by blepharospasm and absence of an upper eyelid fold that may lead to corneal ulceration caused by the folded edge of the upper tarsus or the inturned eyelashes if not corrected by surgery .
a congenital ectropion that is not part of a larger syndrome .
euryblepharon is a rare congenital eyelid anomaly of unknown etiology characterized by the bilateral horizontal enlargement of the palpebral fissure with vertically shortened eyelids ,  lateral canthus malpositioning and lateral ectropion .
congenital eyelid retraction is a very rare kinetic eyelid anomaly that can affect the upper or lower eyelid ,  presents at birth ,  that in some cases can result in corneal exposure ,  and that may be associated with accessory levator muscle slips .
paternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 13 is an uniparental disomy of paternal origin that most likely does not have any phenotypic expression except from cases of homozygosity for a recessive disease mutation for which only father is a carrier .
48 , xyyy syndrome is a rare y chromosome number anomaly that affects only males and is characterized by mild - moderate developmental delay  ( especially speech )  ,  normal to mild intellectual disability ,  large ,  irregular teeth with poor enamel ,  tall stature and acne .
49 , xyyyy is a rare y chromosome number anomaly with a variable phenotype mainly characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  speech delay ,  hypotonia ,  and mild dysmorphic features ,  including facial asymmetry ,  hypertelorism ,  bilateral low set 'lop' ears ,  and micrognatia .
cheirospondyloenchondromatosis is an extremely rare type of enchondromatosis of very early onset  ( from neonatal period to infancy )  characterized by symmetrical multiple enchondromas with metacarpal and phalangeal involvement resulting in short hands and feet ,  platyspondyly ,  mild to moderate short stature and intellectual disability .
mesial temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis is a rare epilepsy syndrome defined by seizures originating in limbic areas of the mesial temporal lobe ,  particularly in the hippocampus ,  amygdala ,  and in the parahippocampal gyrus and its connections ,  and hippocampal sclerosis ,  usually unilateral or assymetric .
leber `plus' disease describes patients with the clinical features of leber's hereditary optic neuropathy  ( lhon ;  see term )  in combination with other serious systemic or neurological abnormalities .
the condition of accelerated and excessive growth in children or adolescents who are exposed to excess human growth hormone before the closure of epiphyses .
myotonia fluctuans  ( mf )  is a form of potassium - aggravated myotonia  ( pam )  which is cold insensitive ,  dramatically fluctuating and profoundly worsened by potassium ingestion .
myotonia permanens is a very rare ,  persistent and more severe form of potassium - aggravated myotonia  ( pam )  .
acetazolamide - responsive myotonia is a form of potassium - aggravated myotonia  ( pam )  which shows dramatic improvement with the use of acetazolamide  ( acz )  .
king - denborough syndrome is a rare genetic non - dystrophic myopathy characterized by the triad of congenital myopathy ,  dysmorphic features and susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia .
pontiac fever  ( pf )  is a mild form of legionellosis manifesting with flu - like symptoms such as nausea ,  myalgia ,  fever ,  cough and headache but without pneumonia .
atypical progressive supranuclear palsy  ( atypical psp )  is a group of clinical syndromes associated with underlying psp - tau pathology ,  that do not conform to the classic presentation of psp  ( richardson syndrome )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease .
mosaic trisomy 9 is a chromosomal abnormality that can affect may parts of the body .
a developmental brain abnormality characterized by atypical migration of neurons during cortical development .
hemimegalencephaly is a rare cerebral malformation characterized by overgrowth of all or part of a cerebral hemisphere ,  often with ipsilateral severe cortical dysplasia or dysgenesis ,  white matter hypertrophy and dilated lateral ventricle ,  presenting in early infancy with progressive hemiparesis ,  severe psychomotor retardation and intractable seizures .
haddad syndrome is a rare congenital disorder in which congenital central hypoventilation syndrome  ( cchs )  ,  or ondine syndrome ,  occurs concurrently with hirschsprung disease .
oculootodental syndrome is a contiguous gene syndrome comprising otodental syndrome  ( characterized by globodontia and sensorineural high - frequency hearing deficit )  associated with eye abnormalities including ,  typically ,  iris and chorioretinal coloboma ,  as well as ,  on occasion ,  microcornea ,  microphtalmos ,  lenticular opacity ,  lens coloboma and iris pigment epithelial atrophy .
peho - like syndrome is a rare ,  genetic neurological disease characterized by progressive encephalopathy ,  early - onset seizures with a hypsarrhythmic pattern ,  facial and limb edema ,  severe hypotonia ,  early arrest of psychomotor development and craniofacial dysmorphism  ( evolving microcephaly ,  narrow forehead ,  short nose ,  prominent auricles ,  open mouth ,  micrognathia )  ,  in the absence of neuro - ophthalmic or neuroradiologic findings .
an instance of porencephaly that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
turcot syndrome with polyposis or turcot syndrome type 2 is a form of familial adematous polyposis ,  characterized by the concurrence of thousands of colonic adenomatous polyposis or colorectal cancer  ( crc )  and a primary central nervous system tumor  ( principally medulloblastoma )  .
nipah virus disease ,  caused by the nipah virus ,  is a recently discovered zoonotic disease characterized by fever ,  constitutional symptoms and encephalitis ,  sometimes accompanied by respiratory illness .
marburg hemorrhagic fever  ( mhf )  ,  caused by marburg virus ,  is a severe viral hemorrhagic disease characterized by initial fever and malaise followed by gastrointestinal symptoms ,  bleeding ,  shock ,  and multi - organ system failure .
crimean - congo hemorrhagic fever  ( cchf )  is a tick - borne zoonotic disease caused by cchf virus and characterized by initial fever ,  headache ,  and malaise followed by gastrointestinal symptoms and ,  in severe cases ,  bleeding ,  shock ,  and multi - organ system failure .
yellow fever  ( yf )  ,  caused by yf virus ,  is a zoonotic disease characterized by fever and constitutional symptoms ,  with the potential to progress to severe and fatal viral hemorrhagic fever with shock and multi - organ system failure .
resistance to thyrotropin - releasing hormone  ( trh )  syndrome is a type of central congenital hypothyroidism characterized by low levels of thyroid hormones due to insufficient release of thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  caused by pituitary resistance to trh .
genetic recurrent myoglobinuria is an inborn error of metabolism characterized by abnormal urinary excretion of myoglobin due to acute destruction of skeletal muscle fibers .
ravine syndrome is an extremely rare genetic neurological disorder ,  reported in a small number of patients in a specific community on reunion island  ( ravine region )  ,  characterized by infantile anorexia with irrepressible and repeated vomiting ,  acute brainstem dysfunction ,  severe failure to thrive ,  and progressive encephalopathy with mri showing vanishing of medulla oblongata and cerebellar white matter and severe atrophy of pons ,  along with supra - tentorial periventricular white - matter hyperintensities and basal ganglia anomalies .
secondary syringomyelia is a rare medullar disease defined as a development of a fluid - filled cavity or syrinx within the spinal cord due to blockage of csf circulation  ( e .g . ,  due to basal archnoiditis ,  meningeal carcinomatosis ,  various mass lesions )  ,  spinal cord injury  ( e .g . ,  due to trauma ,  radiation necrosis ,  hemorrhage ,  spinal abscess )  ,  spinal dysraphism or intramedullary tumours .
idiopathic syringomyelia is a rare ,  non - syndromic central nervous system malformation characterized by a longitudinally oriented fluid - filled cavity inside the spinal cord parenchyma or the central canal ,  without any readily identifiably cause .
the most frequent type of acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
a rare variant of seminoma characterized by the presence of three cell types: round cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm ,  small cells with dark nucleus and a small amount of cytoplasm ,  and mono - or multinucleated giant cells .
thymic neuroendocrine carcinoma is a type of thymic epithelial neoplasm displaying evidence of neuroendocrine differentiation .
a clinical variant of langerhans cell histiocytosis characterized by unifocal involvement of a bone  ( most often )  ,  skin ,  or lung .
hashimoto - pritzker histiocytosis  ( hph )  is a variant of langerhans cell histiocytosis characterized by multiple disseminated skin lesions  ( firm ,  red - brown ,  painless papulo - nodules )  .
a multifocal ,  unisystem form of langerhans - cell histiocytosis .
adult pulmonary langerhans cell histiocytosis  ( plch )  is a rare histiocytic lung disease characterized by the accumulation of langerhans and other inflammatory cells in the small airways ,  resulting in the formation of nodular inflammatory lesions .
an instance of parathyroid gland adenoma that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
transient neonatal diabetes mellitus  ( tndm )  is a genetically heterogeneous form of neonatal diabetes  ( ndm )  characterized by hyperglycemia presenting in the neonatal period that remits during infancy but recurs in later life in most patients .
cushing syndrome due to ectopic  ( adrenocorticotropic hormone )  acth secretion  ( eas )  is a form of acth - dependent cushing syndrome caused by excess secretion of acth by a benign or ,  more often ,  malignant non - pituitary tumor .
adrenocorticotropic hormone dependent cushing syndrome  ( acth - dependent cs )  is a form of endogenous cs caused by abnormal production of acth due ,  in 80% of cases ,  to acth oversecretion by a pituitary adenoma  ( cushing disease ,  cd )  and in 20% of cases to ectopic acth secretion  ( cs due to eas )  by an extrapituitary tumor  ( in 50% of cases originating in the lungs or less commonly in the thymus ,  pancreas ,  adrenal gland or thyroid )  or very rarely due to a tumor secreting both acth and corticotrophin - releasing hormone  ( crh )  .
adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  independent cushing syndrome is a form of endogenous cushing syndrome  ( cs )  that may result from excess secretion of cortisol by either a unilateral and benign  ( adrenocortical adenoma: 55 - 60% )  or malignant  ( adrenocortical carcinoma: 35 - 40 % )  adrenocortical tumor or by bilateral adrenal secretion by macronodular adrenal hyperplasia  ( aimah )  ,  as an isolated disease or as part of mccune - albright syndrome  ( mas )  ,  or by primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease  ( ppnad )  ,  as an isolated disease or as part of carney complex  ( cnc )  .
mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases  ( msmd )  due to complete interferon gamma receptor 1  ( ifn - gammar1 )  deficiency is a genetic variant of msmd characterized by a complete deficiency in ifn - gammar1 ,  leading to impaired ifn - gamma immunity and ,  consequently ,  to severe and often fatal infections with bacillus calmette - guc ) rin  ( bcg )  and other environmental mycobacteria  ( em )  .
a genetic disorder characterized by deficiency of the enzyme long - chain acyl - coenzyme a dehydrogenase that metabolizes long - chain fatty acids .
spirillary rat - bite fever  ( rbf )  ,  also known as sodoku  ( japanese for so: rat and doku: poison )  ,  is caused by the gram - negative bacillus spirillum minus and is transmitted to humans through the bites and scratches of rats .
streptobacillary rat - bite fever  ( rbf )  is a systemic zoonosis caused by the aerobic gram - negative bacterium streptobacillus moniliformis and is transmitted to humans through the bites and scratches of infected rats .
house allergic alveolitis is a hypersensitivity pneumonitis resulting from the inhalation of an antigen to which an individual has been previously sensitized in his / her domestic environment .
pigeon - breeder's lung disease ,  also called bird fancierbs lung ,  is a hypersensitivity pneumonitis induced by inhalation of bird derived - proteins .
occupational allergic alveolitis designates a hypersensitivity pneumonitis resulting from the inhalation of an antigen to which an individual has been previously sensitized in his / her occupational environment .
malignant dysgerminomatous germ cell tumor of ovary is the most common form of malignant germ cell tumor of ovary ,  arising from germ cells in the ovary ,  usually presenting during adolescence with pelvic mass ,  fever ,  vaginal bleeding ,  and acute abdomen and is characterized by bilaterality  ( around 10% of cases )  ,  association with dysgenetic gonads  ( 5 to 10% of cases )  ,  elevated serum lactate dehydrogenase  ( ldh )  and human chorionic gonadotrophin  ( hcg )   ( in the presence of syncitiotrophoblasts )  .
a rare neoplasm arising from the ovary .
an aggressive granulosa cell tumor that arises from the ovary and metastasizes to other anatomic sites .
malignant sertoli - leydig cell tumor of ovary is a rare malignant sex cord stromal tumor of ovary occuring typically in young women and characterized by manifestations of androgen excess  ( hirsutism ,  hair loss ,  amenorrhea ,  or oligomenorrhea )  ,  when functional .
malignant steroid cell tumor of the ovary ,  not otherwise specified is a rare malignant sex cord stromal tumor of ovary of unknown histological lineage ,  occurring in adult women ,  characterized ,  in most cases ,  by manifestations of androgen excess  ( hirsutism ,  hair loss ,  amenorrhea ,  or oligomenorrhea )  and ,  occasionally ,  cushing syndrome .
streptococcal toxic - shock syndrome  ( streptococcal tss )  is an acute disease mediated by the production of superantigenic toxins characterized by the sudden onset of fever and other febrile symptoms ,  pain ,  multisystem organ involvement and potentially leading to coma ,  shock and death due to a streptococcus pyogenes infection .
staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome  ( staphylococcal tss )  is an acute disease mediated by the production of superantigenic toxins ,  characterized by high fever ,  skin rash followed by skin peeling ,  hypotension ,  vomiting ,  diarrhea and potentially leading to multisystem organ failure and caused by a staphylococcus aureus bacterial infection .
a syndrome of immunologically mediated tissue damage that may occur following an allogeneic transplant ,  usually affecting the skin ,  liver ,  and gi tract .
chronic graft versus host disease  ( gvhd )  is a complication that can occur after a stem cell or bone marrow transplant in which the newly transplanted donor cells attack the transplant recipient's body .
ocular pemphigoid is a rare inflammatory eye disease characterized by sub - epithelial blistering manifesting with bilateral ,  asymmetrical ,  chronic or recurrent conjunctivitis and aberrant tissue regeneration leading to progressive conjunctival fibrosis ,  secondary corneal vascularization and ,  in some cases ,  blindness .
a complete hydatidiform mole or very rarely a partial mole that invades the myometrium .
gestational choriocarcinoma is a gestational trophoblastic tumor  ( gtt )  occurring secondary to pregnancy  ( ectopic or normal )  ,  miscarriage ,  voluntary termination of pregnancy  ( vtp )  or a hydatidiform mole .
placental site trophoblastic tumor is a rare gestational trophoblastic tumor  ( gtt )  which develops from the placental implantation site and always occurs following pregnancy ,  voluntary termination of pregnancy  ( vtp )  or miscarriage .
secondary pulmonary hemosiderosis is a respiratory disease due to the deposition of hemosiderin - laden macrophages in lungs as a result of repeated alveolar hemorrhage secondary to another disease ,  especially dysimmunitary disorders  ( i .e .
heiner syndrome ,  also called cow's milk hypersensitivity ,  is a food induced pulmonary hypersensiting syndrome that affects primarily infants and that is characterized by pulmonary hemosiderosis ,  digestive bleeding ,  anemia and poor growing ,  improving with elimination of cow's milk from the diet .
a pleuropulmonary blastoma composed of malignant small cells .
a pleuropulmonary blastoma composed of malignant small cells and characterized by the presence of a sarcomatous component .
a pleuropulmonary blastoma characterized by a solid pattern and sarcomatous features .
autosomal dominant charcot - marie - tooth disease ,  type 2k  ( cmt2k )  is an axonal cmt peripheral sensorimotor polyneuropathy .
o'sullivan mcleod syndrome is a benign lower motor neuron disorder and a rare variant of monomelic amyotrophy  ( ma )  ,  characterized by an initial unilateral weakness in the intrinsic hand muscles that eventually spreads to the opposite limb  ( with an asymmetrical distribution )  and that has a very slow progression of muscular atrophy over a 20 year period .
atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor  ( atrt )  is a highly malignant central nervous system  ( cns )  rhabdoid tumor  ( rt )  found almost exclusively in children .
myxoid / round cell liposarcoma  ( mrcls )  is a type of liposarcoma  ( ls )  mostly located in the limbs ,  with a variable behavior depending on the histological subtype .
pleomorphic liposarcoma  ( pls )  ,  the rarest subtype of liposarcoma  ( ls )  ,  is an aggressive ,  fast growing tumor located usually in the deep soft tissues of the lower and upper extremities .
dedifferentiated liposarcoma  ( ddls )  is a high - grade subtype of liposarcoma  ( ls )  that progresses from well - differentiated liposarcoma  ( wdls )  ,  and most often occurs in the retroperitoneum .
apnea of prematurity is a developmental disorder affecting premature infants ,  likely secondary to an immaturity of respiratory control resulting in idiopathic pauses in breathing often associated with reduced heart rate and arterial blood oxygen levels .
intermediate dend syndrome  ( idend )  is a rare mild form of dend syndrome ,  a neonatal diabetes mellitus ,  developmental delay and epilepsy condition .
complex regional pain syndrome type 2  ( crps2 )  ,  or causalgia is a form of complex regional pain syndrome that develops after damage to a peripheral nerve and is characterized by spontaneous pain ,  allodynia and hyperalgesia ,  not necessarily limited to the territory of the injured nerve ,  as well as at some point ,  edema ,  changes in skin blood flow or sudomotor dysfunction in the pain area .
a latent susceptibility to disease at the genetic level ,  which may be activated under certain conditions .
germ cell tumors of the central nervous system other than germinoma .
a ventricular tachycardia that is irregular in rate and rhythm .
inflammation of the blood vessel wall characterized by palpable purpura .
a germ cell tumor that arises from the testis or ovary and occurs during childhood .
abnormally low level of 25 - hydroxyvitamin d in the blood .
inflammation of the mucous membranes .
a term that refers to germinoma ,  seminoma ,  or dysgerminoma .
a tumor with perivascular epithelioid cell differentiation characterized by the absence of pleomorphism and scarcity or absence of mitotic figures .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the uterine ligament .
an irregularity in the structure of chromosome 17 .
any form of anemia that results from the absence of ,  or the defective action of ,  any enzyme .
any form of anemia that results from the absence of ,  or the defective action of ,  any enzyme involved in erythropoiesis .
a coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor v activity in the blood .
a coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor xi activity in the blood .
a lung tumor that arises from perivascular epithelioid cells  ( pecs )  .
a germ cell tumor that arises within the myocardium or cardiac chambers .
infection due to organisms from the genus mycobacteria .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the peritoneal cavity .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the pharynx .
a benign hair follicle neoplasm with trichoblastic differentiation .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the abducens nerve  ( sixth cranial nerve )  .
a disease or disorder that involves the retroperitoneal space .
an angiokeratoma that is located on the scrotum .
a syndrome resulting from the inadequate absorption of nutrients in the small intestine .
deficiency of a coagulation factor that is not caused by genetic alterations .
an acute and painful inflammatory process that affects the pharynx .
viral encephalitis that is transmitted by mosquitos .
any simpson - golabi - behmel syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gpc3 gene .
x - linked dominant chondrodysplasia punctata  ( cdpx2 )  is a rare genodermatosis with great phenotypic variation and characterized most commonly by ichthyosis ,  chondrodysplasia punctata  ( cdp )  ,  asymmetric shortening of the limbs ,  cataracts and short stature .
x - linked dominant form of disease .
x - linked recessive form of disease .
any liddle syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scnn1b gene .
a malignant meningioma with aggressive clinical course .
a who grade iii meningioma characterized by the presence of malignant morphologic features ,  including malignant cytology and a very high mitotic index  ( 20 or more mitoses per ten high power fields )  .
a type of melanoma that typically occurs in light - skinned individuals ranging in age from young adults to the elderly .
a chromosomal abnormality consisting of the absence of one chromosome from the normal diploid number .
inflammation of the brain secondary to an immune response triggered by the body itself .
a benign or malignant ,  primary or metastatic neoplasm involving the respiratory tract .
a usually autosomal dominant and less frequently autosomal recessive genetic disorder characterized by the presence of numerous cysts in the kidneys leading to end - stage renal failure .
a rare non - hodgkin lymphoma that arises in and is confined to the lung at the time of diagnosis .
autosomal dominant form of osteopetrosis  ( disease )  .
a non - hodgkin lymphoma arising from the conjunctiva ,  lacrimal gland ,  lacrimal drainage apparatus ,  eyelids ,  or other orbital tissues around the eye .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the penis .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the vagina .
a transitional cell carcinoma that arises from the renal pelvis and ureter .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the penis and is caused by human papillomavirus infection .
a conventional osteosarcoma characterized by the predominance of osteoid matrix .
an undifferentiated soft tissue sarcoma characterized by the presence of uniform round or ovoid malignant cells with a high nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio .
a low grade serous epithelial neoplasm arising from the ovary .
a malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of atypical spindle cells .
a benign or malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic spindle cells .
a sarcoidosis characterized by the triad of erythema nodosum ,  bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy on chest radiograph ,  and joint pain .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the paranasal sinuses .
a disorder characterized by occlusion of blood vessels .
complete closure of the normally patent lumen of the blood vessels which carry blood away from the heart .
disease of the large or small intestine that is caused by inadequate blood supply .
hearing loss in which the root cause lies in the inner ear or sensory organ  ( cochlea and associated structures )  or the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cranial nerve viii )  .
hearing loss caused by impaired transmission of signals from the external auditory canal or middle ear to the cochlea .
acute inflammation of the bronchioles usually caused by the respiratory syncytial virus .
disease having a short and relatively severe course .
an ependymal tumor arising from the infratentorial region of the brain .
an acute inflammation of the tonsils caused by viruses or bacteria .
an ependymal tumor arising from the supratentorial region of the brain .
reduced blood flow to the spinal cord which is supplied by the anterior spinal artery and the paired posterior spinal arteries .
a neurologic condition associated with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and characterized by impaired concentration and memory ,  slowness of hand movements ,  ataxia ,  incontinence ,  apathy ,  and gait difficulties associated with hiv - 1 viral infection of the central nervous system .
a benign form of phosphorylase kinase deficiency caused by variants in phka2 or phkg2 and characterized by hepatomegaly ,  growth retardation ,  and mild delay in motor development during childhood .
a carcinoma that arises from the salivary glands ,  most often the parotid gland .
a type of cerebral palsy characterized by decreased muscle tone .
a disease characterized by low serum levels of vitamin b12 ,  either inherited or acquired .
a lung carcinoma arising within the bronchi or bronchial tubes .
a deficiency in biotin through either inherited or acquired causes .
rippling muscle disease is a rare ,  genetic ,  neuromuscular disorder characterized by muscle hyperirritability triggered by stretch ,  percussion or movement .
osteophytes that most commonly develop on the distal interphalangeal joints ,  often in the setting of osteoarthritis .
hearing loss resulting from disorders of the central nervous system auditory pathways .
a neurodegenerative condition characterized by asymmetric weakness in the upper extremities resulting from segmental lower motor neuron dysfunction .
an inflammatory and granulomatous ,  dermatophytic infection that is classified into two forms ,  depending on the affected individuals health situation and clinical picture .
inflammation of the amnion .
a thyroid hormone resistance syndrome characterized by resistance in peripheral tissues but not in the pituitary .
anemia due to a disorder that is persistent or long - standing in nature .
an inherited disorder that causes a gradual loss of kidney function ,  caused by a mutation in the muc1 gene that leads to production of an abnormal mucin 1 protein ,  which deposits in the kidney and leads to slow loss of kidney function .
a viral infection that is transmitted by an arthropod .
an acute leukemia of ambiguous lineage .
a disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of intermittent failure of atrial electrical impulse conduction to the ventricles ,  characterized by a progressively lengthening pr interval prior to the block of an atrial impulse .
infectious disease causes by viruses in the subfamily orthocoronavirinae  ( coronaviruses )  .
a migraine disorder characterized by an aura that includes motor weakness and the absence of family history .
intraepidermal squamous cell carcinoma ,  confined to the epidermis .
a form of squamous cell carcinoma in situ .
a rare neurologic disorder caused by impingement of the nerve roots of the cauda equina secondary to disc herniation ,  spinal stenosis ,  vertebral fracture ,  neoplasm or infection .
discharge of cerebrospinal fluid through the nose .
infections with bacteria of the family chlamydiaceae .
any dysfunction in the growth of cartilage .
chronic painless inflammation of the gums .
a rare ,  invasive colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of sheets of malignant epithelial cells with vesicular nuclei ,  prominent nucleoli ,  and abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm .
a condition occurring as a result of exposure to a rapid fall in ambient pressure .
any condition in which there is degeneration of the myelin sheath that covers the nerves of the central nervous system .
a rare ,  invasive rectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of sheets of malignant epithelial cells with vesicular nuclei ,  prominent nucleoli ,  and abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm .
a defect of the bundle branches or fascicles in the electrical conduction system of the heart .
a heart block that is initiated in the sinoatrial node .
the result of pathological changes in the hard tissue of a tooth caused by carious lesions ,  mechanical factors ,  or trauma ,  which render the pulp susceptible to bacterial invasion from the external environment .
most common follicular odontogenic cyst .
dentin formed by normal pulp after completion of root end formation .
infection of the anterior nasal structures by corynebacterium diphtheriae .
medullary carcinoma may refer to one of several different tumors of epithelial origin .
pseudomembranous colitis resulting from infection by corynebacterium diphtheriae .
any liddle syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scnn1g gene .
infection of the fauces by corynebacterium diphtheriae .
infection of the larynx by corynebacterium diphtheriae .
infection of the nasopharynx by corynebacterium diphtheriae .
infection with the organism escherichia coli .
infection by a variety of fungi ,  usually through four possible mechanisms: superficial infection producing conjunctivitis ,  keratitis ,  or lacrimal obstruction ;  extension of infection from neighboring structures  -  skin ,  paranasal sinuses ,  nasopharynx ;  direct introduction during surgery or accidental penetrating trauma ;  or via the blood or lymphatic routes in patients with underlying mycoses .
mild to severe infections of the eye and its adjacent structures  ( adnexa )  by adult or larval protozoan or metazoan parasites .
infections of the eye caused by minute intracellular agents .
an infection that is caused by the organism mansonella ozzardi .
inflammation of the urethra secondary to infection with neisseria gonorrhoeae ;  this infection is spread through sexual contact .
a tumor - like nodule or mass of inflammatory granulation tissue projecting into the lumen of the larynx .
an infectious or non - infectious inflammatory process that affects the prostate gland .
a hamartoma characterized by localized pilosebaceous apparatus malformation .
a usually benign congenital skin growth that is often pigmented and sometimes develop coarse surface hair .
disease - related laceration or tearing of tissues of the heart ,  including the free - wall myocardium ;  heart septum ;  papillary muscles ;  chordae tendineae ;  and any of the heart valves .
the persistence of substantial fetal hemoglobin production into adulthood ,  usually associated with hemoglobinopathies due to mutations in the alpha and / or beta chain of hemoglobin .
hemochromatosis type 1  ( classic )  is the most common form of hereditary hemochromatosis  ( hh )  ,  a group of diseases characterized by excessive tissue iron deposition .
a disease characterized by the presence of syndactyly ,  including syndromic and non - syndromic forms .
a disease characterized by the presence of polydactyly ,  including syndromic and non - syndromic forms .
a disease characterized by the presence of brachydactyly ,  including syndromic and non - syndromic forms .
a rare developmental disorder characterized by facial ,  limbs and genital features ,  and a disproportionate acromelic short stature .
an antiphospholipid syndrome that occurs alongside another autoimmune disorder .
a carcinoma that arises from the salivary glands .
a malignant vascular neoplasm of the skin arising from the lymphatic vessels .
a subtype of trichothiodystrophy caused by mutation ( s )  in the mplkip gene ,  encoding m - phase - specific plk1 - interacting protein .
a disease caused by disturbed function of ion channel subunits or the proteins that regulate them .
a disease caused by dysfunction of synapses .
autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy type 1d  ( lgmd1d )  is a subtype of autosomal dominant limb - girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by an adult - onset of slowly progressive ,  proximal pelvic girdle weakness ,  with none ,  or only minimal ,  shoulder girdle involvement ,  and absence of cardiac and respiratory symptoms .
x - linked recessive ocular albinism  ( xloa )  is a rare disorder characterized by ocular hypopigmentation ,  foveal hypoplasia ,  nystagmus ,  photodysphoria ,  and reduced visual acuity in males .
crigler - najjar syndrome type 1  ( cns1 )  is the most severe form of cns ,  a hereditary disorder of hepatic bilirubin conjugation ,  characterized by severe neonatal unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia due to a complete absence of hepatic bilirubin glucuronosyltransferase  ( bgt )  .
hereditary hyperekplexia is a hereditary neurological disorder characterized by excessive startle responses .
complete androgen insensitivity syndrome  ( cais )  is a form of androgen insensitivity syndrome  ( ais )  ,  a disorder of sex development  ( dsd )  ,  characterized by the presence of female external genitalia in a 46 , xy individual with normal testis development but undescended testes and unresponsiveness to age - appropriate levels of androgens .
an instance of epidermal appendage anomaly that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of hair anomaly that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of nail anomaly that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of sebaceous gland anomaly that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
a form of herpes zoster infection characterized by dermatitis of the skin of the eyelid due to reactivation of latent virus associated with the ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve .
painful ,  localized rash caused by reactivation of latent varicella zoster virus residing in nerve cell bodies ,  with resulting infection of the skin in the region supplied by the affected nerve .
an instance of alopecia that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
a form of dry skin characterised by hair follicles plugged by scale .
an instance of neurodegenerative disease with dementia that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
a spectrum of malignant tumors ,  affecting mostly males under age 20 ,  characterized morphologically by the presence of small round cells .
a spectrum of malignant tumors arising from the soft tissues ,  characterized morphologically by the presence of small round cells .
a benign or malignant neoplasm involving the pancreas .
a localized neoplasm of probable fibroblastic derivation ,  that arises from the pleura .
a benign or malignant brain and spinal cord tumor that arises from glial cells  ( astrocytes ,  oligodendrocytes ,  ependymal cells )  .
a neoplasm composed of at least two distinct cellular populations .
an embryonal neoplasm characterized by the presence of epithelial ,  mesenchymal ,  and blastema components .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of an epithelial and a fibrous component .
a benign or malignant biphasic neoplasm that arises from the breast parenchyma .
a benign ,  malignant ,  or borderline circumscribed biphasic neoplasm that arises from the breast .
a localized mast cell neoplasm without metastatic potential .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the vulva .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the vagina .
a benign or malignant ,  usually non - functioning ,  extra - adrenal paraganglioma that arises from paraganglia located along the parasympathetic nerves .
a benign or malignant extra - adrenal parasympathetic paraganglioma arising from paraganglia adjacent to or in the bifurcation of the common carotid artery .
a sarcoma that arises from the bone .
familial adenomatous polyposis  ( fap )  is characterized by the development of hundreds to thousands of adenomas in the rectum and colon during the second decade of life .
any attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the apc gene .
an inherited diseases haracterized by the development of adenomas in the rectum and colon ;  classified into classic fap and attenuated fap .
a broad classification for disorders in which the development of neoplasms typically occur in association with a characteristic set of signs or symptoms .
any disease or disorder affecting the head and / or neck region .
the rasopathies are developmental syndromes caused by germline mutations  ( or in rare cases by somatic mosaicism )  in genes that alter the ras subfamily and mitogen - activated protein kinases that control signal transduction .
a hereditary neoplastic syndrome in which tumors grow in the nervous system .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the colon .
a benign or malignant extra - adrenal parasympathetic paraganglioma arising from paraganglia in the base of the skull and middle ear .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that involves the serous membrane that lines the lungs and thoracic cavity .
a benign or malignant ,  primary or metastatic neoplasm involving the urinary system .
a germ cell tumor that arises from the mediastinum .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant neoplasm involving the ovary .
a malignant neoplasm affecting the endocrine glands .
a carcinoma that arises from the sublingual gland .
a benign or malignant neoplasm involving the larynx .
a benign or malignant paraganglioma arising from the chromaffin cells of the paraganglia that are located along the sympathetic nerves .
a classification for rare disorders of diverse organ systems  ( endocrine ,  neuromuscular ,  gastrointestinal ,  renal ,  dermatologic ,  rheumatologic ,  hematologic )  that are affected by substances secreted by a distant neoplasm but not by the action of the neoplasm itself metastasizing to that organ or tissue .
a pathological process with signs indicating it may become cancerous .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the epithelial cells of the exocrine pancreatic tissue .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that contains a single or multiple cystic spaces .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising during childhood .
a neoplasm arising from arteries or veins .
an autoimmune acute encephalitis caused by antibodies against the glutamate nmda receptor .
a neoplasm involving a meckel's diverticulum .
any congenital fibrosis of extraocular muscles in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kif21a gene .
any impairment to the vision .
a benign or malignant neoplasm involving the stomach .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the upper or lower gingiva .
a who grade iii meningioma characterized by the predominance of a perivascular pseudopapillary pattern .
malignant growth of cells in the peripheral nervous system  ( pns ) or autonomic nervous system  ( ans )  ,  without specification as to location
an invasive breast carcinoma characterized by the presence of cytoplasmic neutral lipids in the vast majority of the malignant cells .
a serous or mucinous benign or low malignant potential cystic epithelial neoplasm .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the fallopian tube .
any cranioectodermal dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ift122 gene .
disease in which there is a deficiency or defect in the mechanisms of immunity ,  either cellular or humoral .
a group of disorders which feature impaired motor control characterized by bradykinesia ,  muscle rigidity ;  tremor ;  and postural instability .
a benign papillary neoplasm that arises anywhere in the ductal system of the breast .
glandular or squamous cell neoplastic proliferations characterized by the formation of multiple papillary structures diffusely involving a specific anatomic site .
a neoplastic process characterized by the presence of multiple intraductal papillomas .
a benign or malignant neoplasm of the breast parenchyma .
a neuroendocrine tumor arising from the wall of the appendix ,  producing glucagon - like peptides .
an unusual ,  biphasic benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the prostate gland .
historically ,  a heterogeneous group of acute and chronic diseases ,  including rheumatoid arthritis ,  systemic lupus erythematosus ,  progressive systemic sclerosis ,  dermatomyositis ,  etc .
lipid infiltration of the hepatic parenchymal cells that is due to alcohol abuse .
a rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in genes encoding proteins of the nuclear lamina .
a sleep disorder characterized by a tendency for excessive sleepiness during the day which occurs even after adequate sleep in the nighttime .
a disorder characterized by acute inflammation of the meninges of the brain and / or spinal cord .
an endophytic lesion in the urinary tract which shares several morphologic features with urothelial papilloma .
a benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the sweat glands .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the ureter .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the scrotum .
the significant impairment of gas exchange within the lungs resulting in hypoxia ,  hypercarbia ,  or both ,  to the extent that organ tissue perfusion is severely compromised .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the bartholin gland .
a biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by low to moderate expression of genes characteristic of luminal epithelial cells including estrogen receptor  ( er )  ,  and high expression of ggh ,  laptm4b ,  and ccne1 .
a biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by high expression of genes characteristic of luminal epithelial cells ,  including estrogen receptor  ( er )  ,  estrogen regulated protein liv - 1 ,  and the transcription factors hepatocyte nuclear factor 3 ,  hnf3a ,  xbp1 ,  and gata 3 .
a benign or malignant ,  primary or metastatic neoplasm involving the lungs .
a benign or malignant neoplasm involving the small or large intestine .
a hormone producing or non - producing endocrine neoplasm ,  not associated with a hormonal syndrome .
a hormone producing endocrine neoplasm ,  associated with a hormonal syndrome .
a vascular proliferation characterized by the presence of prominent endothelial cells and the formation of vascular channels .
a spectrum of malignant tumors arising from the bone and characterized morphologically by the presence of small round cells .
diminished or absent ability of a female to achieve conception .
an attribute of a disease .
an characteristic of a disease that varies depending on whether the disease appears as an isolated feature or whether the disease is a syndrome consisting of multiple features .
an characteristic of a disease in which the disease is not manifested as an isolated feature but has multiple distinct features .
an characteristic of a disease in which the disease is manifested as an isolated feature .
congenital or developmental anomaly in which the eyeballs are abnormally small .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of sphingolipid biosynthetic process .
an ependymal tumor affecting the frontal lobe of the brain .
an overproduction of parathyroid hormone that is autonomous and often associated with chronic secondary hyperparathyroidism .
an acquired coagulation disorder due to reduced levels and activity of factor xiii .
an bleeding disorder with a decreased antigen and / or activity of factor x  ( fx )  that is acquired .
a disease or disorder is defined as rare in europe when it affects fewer than 1 in 2000 .
malignant neoplasms that either originate from the bone marrow  ( e .g .
a characteristic of a disease in which the disease is present at birth ,  regardless of cause .
the acquired form of rmd .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor of the ovary that is characterized by a predominance of clear and hobnail cells .
a disease that involves the genitourinary system .
various conditions with the symptom of headache .
any disease or disorder that disrupts the process development of an anatomical structure .
a benign ,  precancerous ,  or malignant neoplasm that affects the female reproductive system .
a characteristic of a disease in which the cause of the disease is a genetic problem inherited from either or both parents .
a disease that involves the dermis .
x - linked form of cone - rod dystrophy .
inflammation of the pituitary gland .
an salpingitis caused by infection with neisseria gonorrhoeae .
an cystitis caused by infection with neisseria gonorrhoeae .
an prostatitis  ( disease )  caused by infection with neisseria gonorrhoeae .
a benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the kidney .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the prepuce of penis .
a malignant neoplasm composed of large cells with large nuclei ,  prominent nucleoli ,  and abundant pale cytoplasm  ( paget cells )  .
a disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the anatomical structure .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the muscle tissue .
a rare benign slow growing adipose tissue tumor ,  characterized by the presence of polygonal brown fat cells with multivacuolated and / or granular cytoplasm .
a hemangioma characterized by the presence of epithelioid endothelial cells .
classic form of timothy syndrome ,  includes all features of generic .
atypical form of timothy syndrome ,  causes a more severe form of long qt syndrome and a greater risk of arrhythmia and sudden death .
infection of the vulva and the vagina caused by herpes simplex virus .
autoimmune hepatitis characterized by the presence of anti - liver kidney microsomal antibody type 1  ( anti - lkm1 )  and / or anti - liver cytosol type 1  ( anti - lc1 )  autoantibodies .
autoimmune hepatitis characterized by the presence of antibodies to soluble liver or liver - pancreas antigens .
damage inflicted on the body as the direct or indirect result of an external force ,  with or without disruption of structural continuity .
disorders caused by imbalances in the protein homeostasis network  -  synthesis ,  folding ,  and transport of proteins ;  post - translational modifications ;  and degradation or clearance of misfolded proteins .
acquired xanthinuria is generally iatrogenic .
hemorrhagic and thrombotic disorders that occur as a consequence of inherited abnormalities in blood coagulation .
infections caused by the htlv or blv deltaretroviruses .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of intestinal motility .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of dna repair .
a malignant form of ependymoma .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from tooth - forming tissues .
a neoplasm of the nervous system that arises from the neuroepithelial tissues .
a grouping of diseases based on molecular activity ,  cellular process or subcellular component .
a disease that disrupts the functioning of an organ system .
any of the forms of disease that have a rare incidence .
an inflammatory process affecting the skin ,  caused by bacteria ,  viruses ,  parasites ,  or fungi .
a otitis media  ( disease )  with a basis in a pathological type i hypersensitivity reaction .
chronic form of otitis media  ( disease )  .
a disease that involves the ear .
chronic form of non - suppurative otitis media .
an crohn disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the jejunum .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the heart .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the trachea .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the brain .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the placenta .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the eye .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the vestibulocochlear nerve .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the lacrimal gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the digestive system .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the iris .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the uvea .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the adrenal gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the brainstem .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the ciliary body .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the uterine cervix .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the retina .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the pineal body .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the ear .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the spinal cord .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the external ear .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the adrenal medulla .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the cornea .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the urethra .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the tongue .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the buccal mucosa .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the sublingual gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the parotid gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the submandibular gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the oral cavity .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the pharynx .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the nervous system .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the lip .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the tonsil .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the endometrium .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the gall bladder .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the body of uterus .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the jugular body .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the optic choroid .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the prostate gland .
a disease or disorder that involves the sensory ganglion .
a villous adenoma that involves the colon .
a leiomyoma that involves the ciliary body .
a papilloma that involves the eyelid .
a papilloma that involves the buccal mucosa .
a mucoepidermoid carcinoma that involves the submandibular gland .
a mucoepidermoid carcinoma that involves the parotid gland .
a cavernous hemangioma that involves the retina .
a malignant teratoma that involves the testis .
a malignant teratoma that involves the mediastinum .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the ureter .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the urethra .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the epiglottis .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the hypopharynx .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the caecum .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the vermiform appendix .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the fundus of stomach .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the body of stomach .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the cardia of stomach .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the renal pelvis .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the nasopharynx .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the oropharynx .
a in situ carcinoma that involves the extrahepatic bile duct .
a adenoid cystic carcinoma that involves the oropharynx .
a adenoma that involves the nipple .
a adenoma that involves the small intestine .
a cancer that involves the endocervix .
a cancer that involves the neck .
a cancer that involves the parathyroid gland .
a cancer that involves the adrenal cortex .
a cancer that involves the eyelid .
a cancer that involves the nasopharynx .
a cancer that involves the minor salivary gland .
a cancer that involves the cerebellum .
a cancer that involves the mouth floor .
a cancer that involves the extrahepatic bile duct .
a cancer that involves the meningeal cluster .
a cancer that involves the chest wall .
a cancer that involves the abdominal part of esophagus .
a cancer that involves the thoracic part of esophagus .
a cancer that involves the cervical part of esophagus .
a carcinoma that involves the urethra .
a carcinoma that arises from the soft palate .
a carcinoma that involves the parotid gland .
a carcinoma that involves the lip .
disorders characterized by abnormal proliferation of primary cells of the immune system or by excessive production of immunoglobulins .
a carcinoma that involves the duodenum .
a carcinoma that involves the tonsil .
a carcinoma that involves the hard palate .
a superficial dermatitis occurring on skin surfaces in contact with each other ,  such as the axillae ,  neck creases ,  intergluteal fold ,  between the toes ,  etc .
a carcinoma that involves the mouth floor .
a carcinoma that involves the pharynx .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the testis .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the thoracic segment of trunk .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the neck .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the uterus .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the adipose tissue .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the esophagus .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the saliva - secreting gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the hypopharynx .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the parathyroid gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the oropharynx .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the middle ear .
the phase of chronic myeloid leukemia following the chronic phase  ( leukemia ,  myeloid ,  chronic - phase )  ,  where there are increased systemic symptoms ,  worsening cytopenias ,  and refractory leukocytosis .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the major salivary gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the minor salivary gland .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the temporal lobe .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the parietal lobe .
a neoplasm involving a cerebral hemisphere .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the duodenum .
a form of lichen planus that is characterized by plaques of markedly thickened skin that is often extremely pruritic and localized to the lower legs .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the endocardium .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the epicardium .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the myocardium .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the pericardium .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the mouth floor .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the mediastinum .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the chest wall .
a benign or malignant extra - adrenal parasympathetic paraganglioma that arises from paraganglia adjacent to the base of the heart and great vessels .
a polyp that involves the ureter .
a polyp that involves the large intestine .
a polyp that involves the vagina .
a polyp that involves the mammalian vulva .
a polyp that involves the rectum .
a polyp that involves the colon .
a polyp that involves the external acoustic meatus .
a polyp that involves the sphenoidal sinus .
a polyp that involves the frontal sinus .
a polyp that involves the maxillary sinus .
a polyp that involves the gall bladder .
a polyp that involves the ethmoid sinus .
a non - neoplastic polypoid swelling of the vocal cord mucosa .
a hemangiopericytoma that involves the zone of skin .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the lip .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the mouth floor .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the buccal mucosa .
a lipoma that involves the stomach .
a benign neoplasm that involves the pituitary gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the zone of skin .
a benign neoplasm that involves the exocrine pancreas .
a benign neoplasm that involves the lymph node .
a benign neoplasm that involves the large intestine .
a benign neoplasm that involves the oral cavity .
a benign neoplasm that involves the epiglottis .
a benign neoplasm that involves the testis .
a benign neoplasm that involves the stomach .
a benign neoplasm that involves the heart .
a benign neoplasm that involves the brain .
a benign neoplasm that involves the cornea .
a benign neoplasm that involves the retina .
a benign neoplasm that involves the eye .
a benign neoplasm that involves the neck .
a benign neoplasm that involves the sternum .
a benign neoplasm that involves the pleura .
a benign neoplasm that involves the penis .
a benign neoplasm that involves the esophagus .
a benign neoplasm that involves the saliva - secreting gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the hypopharynx .
a benign neoplasm that involves the rectum .
a benign neoplasm that involves the parathyroid gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the caecum .
a benign neoplasm that involves the vermiform appendix .
a benign neoplasm that involves the renal pelvis .
a benign neoplasm that involves the adrenal medulla .
a benign neoplasm that involves the anus .
a benign neoplasm that involves the pancreas .
a benign neoplasm that involves the endometrium .
a benign neoplasm that involves the scrotum .
a benign neoplasm that involves the epididymis .
a benign neoplasm that involves the ear .
a benign neoplasm that involves the nasal cavity .
a benign neoplasm that involves the tongue .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the sphenoid sinus .
a benign neoplasm that involves the nasopharynx .
a benign neoplasm that involves the oropharynx .
a benign neoplasm that involves the soft palate .
a benign neoplasm that involves the submandibular gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the middle ear .
a benign neoplasm that involves the frontal sinus .
a benign neoplasm that involves the maxillary sinus .
a benign neoplasm that involves the iris .
a benign neoplasm that involves the ciliary body .
a benign neoplasm that involves the optic choroid .
a benign neoplasm that involves the lacrimal gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the sweat gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the sebaceous gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the gingiva .
a benign neoplasm that involves the major salivary gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the minor salivary gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the parotid gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the sublingual gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the lip .
a benign neoplasm that involves the telencephalon .
a benign neoplasm that involves the placenta .
a benign neoplasm that involves the cerebellum .
a benign neoplasm that involves the spleen .
a benign neoplasm that involves the small intestine .
a benign neoplasm that involves the gall bladder .
a benign neoplasm that involves the endocardium .
a benign neoplasm that involves the spinal cord .
a benign neoplasm that involves the brainstem .
a benign neoplasm that involves the epicardium .
a benign neoplasm that involves the myocardium .
a benign neoplasm that involves the prostate gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the adrenal gland .
a benign neoplasm that involves the thymus .
a benign neoplasm that involves the tonsil .
a benign neoplasm that involves the pericardium .
a benign neoplasm that involves the ethmoid sinus .
a benign neoplasm that involves the glottis .
a benign neoplasm that involves the trachea .
a benign neoplasm that involves the hard palate .
a benign neoplasm that involves the mouth floor .
a benign neoplasm that involves the mediastinum .
a benign neoplasm that involves the bone of lower jaw .
a benign neoplasm that involves the pharynx .
a benign neoplasm that involves the buccal mucosa .
a benign neoplasm that involves the body of uterus .
a benign neoplasm that involves the meningeal cluster .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the breast parenchyma in males .
a benign neoplasm that involves the chest wall .
a benign neoplasm that involves the subglottis .
a fibroma that involves the lung .
a fibroma that involves the prostate gland .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the small or large intestine .
a well differentiated ,  low grade neuroendocrine tumor  ( carcinoid tumor )  that arises from the rectum .
a low grade well differentiated tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
a undifferentiated carcinoma that involves the nasopharynx .
a verrucous carcinoma that involves the oral cavity .
a hamartoma  ( disease )  that involves the cutaneous appendage .
a hamartoma  ( disease )  that involves the lung .
a hemangioma that involves the retina .
a hemangioma that involves the optic choroid .
a hemangioma that involves the gingiva .
a benign or malignant mesenchymal neoplasm arising from smooth ,  skeletal ,  or cardiac muscle .
an ependymal tumor that arises from the spinal cord .
hemolytic anemia that is not mediated by immune mechanisms .
inflammation of the umbilical cord stump in newborns .
a disease that involves the renal tubule .
emery - dreifuss muscular dystrophy inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and caused by mutations in the lmna gene .
any inherited oocyte maturation defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tubb8 gene .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor of the fallopian tube that is characterized by the presence of glands and / or cysts lined by neoplastic cells that resemble endometrial cells .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the sternum .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the femur .
a neoplasm  ( disease )  that involves the jaw skeleton .
neoplasms composed of connective tissue ,  including elastic ,  mucous ,  reticular ,  osseous ,  and cartilaginous tissue .
a flat ,  benign ,  pigmented spot on the skin caused by excessive deposition of melanin from an increased number of melanocytes in the cell layer directly above the basement membrane of the epidermis .
a melanocytic neoplasm that involves the zone of skin .
a sebaceous gland carcinoma affecting the eyelid .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the upper or lower eyelid .
a seborrheic keratosis that involves the eyelid .
a capillary hemangioma arising from the eyelid .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant neoplasm that affects the uterine ligaments .
a lipoma that involves the face .
a astrocytoma  ( excluding glioblastoma )  that involves the brain .
an astrocytoma that arises from the cerebral hemispheres .
a epithelial neoplasm that involves the zone of skin .
that disease that arises from defects in the development of tissues containing cells commonly derived from the embryonic neural crest cell lineage .
a glial tumor of the brain or spinal cord showing astrocytic differentiation .
a grade i or grade ii glioma arising from the central nervous system .
a grade i or grade ii astrocytic tumor .
a glioma arising from the central nervous system .
a group of malignant gliomas that includes anaplastic astrocytoma ,  anaplastic oligodendroglioma ,  anaplastic oligoastrocytoma ,  and anaplastic ependymoma .
virus diseases caused by the bunyaviridae .
a varicose disease that involves the mammalian vulva .
a varicose disease that involves the mesentery .
an epithelial neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the uterine corpus .
a joint presentation of syndactyly  ( fusion of digits )  and polydactyly  ( production of supernumerary digits )  .
an adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a diffuse cellular infiltrate which is composed of poorly cohesive cells with minimal or no glandular formations .
a term that refers to teratoma ,  embryonal carcinoma ,  yolk sac tumor ,  choriocarcinoma ,  or mixed forms of these tumors .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is composed of granulosa cells ,  sertoli cells ,  leydig cells ,  theca cells ,  and fibroblasts .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm composed of a mixture of neuroendocrine cells with morphologic and immunohistochemical characteristics of carcinoid tumor and malignant glandular cells .
a deep folliculitis due to a cutaneous dermatophyte infection ,  usually on the legs .
atherosclerosis of the coronary vasculature .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts .
a poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant cells with spindle cell features .
a rare autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the phyh gene ,  encoding phytanoyl - coa dioxygenase ,  peroxisomal .
a viral or bacterial infection that affects the external ,  middle ,  or inner ear .
a pain disorder characterize by pain in the distribution of a nerve or nerves
infections caused by bacteria that show up as pink  ( negative )  when treated by the gram - staining method .
infections caused by bacteria that retain the crystal violet stain  ( positive )  when treated by the gram - staining method .
any of the several infectious disorders caused by members of streptococcus ,  a genus of gram positive bacteria belonging to the family streptococcaceae .
a disease due to or propagated by sexual contact .
viral diseases which are potentially transmitted or propagated by sexual conduct .
obsolete a disease that can be transmitted from one organism to another ,  typically but not always by an infectious process .
infections with bacteria of the genus chlamydia .
disorders related to or resulting from abuse or mis - use of alcohol .
disorders stemming from the misuse and abuse of alcohol .
a mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse  ( alcoholism )  and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss ,  confabulations ,  and disturbances of attention .
inflammation of several peripheral nerves .
an umbrella term used to describe a pattern of disabilities and abnormalities that result from fetal exposure to ethanol during pregnancy .
vulvodynia is a chronic pain syndrome that affects the vulvar area and occurs without an identifiable cause .
tightness of the vaginal wall during vaginal penetration including sexual intercourse .
abdominal cystic lymphangioma is a benign  ( noncancerous )  malformation of the lymphatic vessels in the abdomen .
aberrant subclavian artery is a rare vascular anomaly that is present from birth .
inflammation of the sigmoid colon and rectum .
a name applied to several itchy skin eruptions of unknown cause .
an infection occurring in puerperium ,  the period of 6 - 8 weeks after giving birth .
a growth disorder that is observed between the ages of 2 and 15 ,  caused by extreme emotional deprivation or stress .
a infectious disease involving the acanthamoeba .
pus within the collecting system of the kidney .
achardthiers syndrome combines the features of adrenogenital syndrome and cushing syndrome .
agranulocytosis that is autoimmune in origin .
acquired fructose intolerance is a condition in which the body can not properly absorb the sugar ,  fructose .
an erythrocytic disorder that is characterized by macrocytosis and megaloblastic changes of the bone marrow cells ,  with additional morphological defects of hands and feet .
a severe ,  dysmorphic condition is characterized by shortening of median and distal segments of the limbs without anomalies of the spine .
acrofacial dysostosis with pre - and postaxial involvement ;  a postaxial defect of the right ,  and a preaxial defect of the left hand .
an inflammatory process affecting a nerve root .
pancarditis ,  involving inflammation of the endocardium ,  myocardium ,  and epicardium .
inflammation of the throat due to streptococcus pyogenes .
pulmonary or extrapulmonary infection caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis or nontuberculous mycobacteria in a patient with silicosis .
a primary dysautonomia characterized by hypohidrosis and selective parasympathetic peripheral autonomic nerve disturbances of acute onset .
disorders of the autonomic nervous system occurring as a primary condition .
acute mountain sickness is characterized by altitude sickness that affects otherwise healthy persons ,  develops within hours after arriving at altitude ,  and results in functional impairment from symptoms that may include headache ,  anorexia ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  dizziness ,  fatigue ,  and sleep disturbances .
a benign sweat gland neoplasm usually occurring in the scalp or the face .
a progressive muscle weakness and atrophy of the limbs that irregularly affects certain muscles ,  while it spares others .
infection with the less common aerobic antinomyces bacteria .
a syndrome characterized by frontal bossing ,  cloudy corneae ,  low nasal ridge ,  and micrognathia ,  hypoplastic thorax ,  and rhizomelic micromelia .
a syndrome characterized by a malformations of the neck due to a branchial arch defect .
a disease characterized by cherubism  ( disorder characterized by abnormal bone tissue in the lower part of the face .
infections with bacteria of the order spirochaetales .
a syndrome characterized by a unilateral linear basal cell nevus ,  diffuse osteoma cutis ,  unilateral anodontia  ( missing teeth )  ,  and abnormal bone mineralization .
a syndrome characterized by total alopecia  ( hair loss )  ,  total vitligo ,  and nail changes .
an autosomal recessive ,  oculo - reno - skeletal syndrome characterized by bilateral atypical macular coloboma ,  familial juvenile nephronophthisis and mesomelic skeletal dysplasia of upper limbs with bilateral radiohumeral fusion .
a histologic variant of anaplastic large cell lymphoma characterized by the presence of a predominant population of small to medium size malignant cells with irregular nuclei .
a common disorder noted with jaw movement .
a rare ,  congenital anomaly in the aorta in which a communication exists between the ascending aorta and the pulmonary artery .
aplasia cutis with autosomal recessive inheritance .
aplasia cutis congenita with with autosomal dominant inheritance with reduced penetrance .
aquagenic pruritus is a conditionin which contact with water of any temperature causes intense itching ,  without any visible skin changes .
a rare autosomal dominant inherited metabolic disorder characterized by deficiency of the enzyme tetrahydrofolate - methyltransferase .
a syndrome characterized by bilateral anophthalmia  ( absence of one or both eyes )  ,  esophageal atresia  ( the upper esophagus ends and does not connect with the lower esophagus and stomach )  ,  and cryptorchidism  ( a condition in which one or both of the testes fail to descend from the abdomen into the scrotum )  .
inflammation of the tracheobronchial tree .
myositis ossificans resulting from trauma .
trypanosomiasis caused by infection by trypanosoma brucei gambiense .
a infectious disease involving the aspergillus niger .
an infection with trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense .
a tumor - like mass resulting from the enlargement of a tuberculous lesion .
a hearing disorder characterized by impaired transmission of signals through the auditory nerve ,  resulting in mild to severe hearing loss and poor speech perception .
a disorder characterized by the partial or complete loss of the ability to detect sounds due to damage to the ear structures or inability of the brain to properly interpret or process the auditory signals it receives from the anatomic structures of the ear .
autoimmune oophoritis is a rare cause of primary ovarian insufficiency  ( poi )  .
autoimmune progesterone dermatitis  ( apd )  is primarily characterized by a recurrent skin rash that varies in severity depending on the phase of the menstrual cycle .
scarring of the lung parenchyma caused by pulmonary tuberculosis .
an acute or chronic inflammatory process affecting the ureter .
a very rare syndrome characterized by craniosynostosis  ( premature fusion of skull bones )  ,  hydrocephalus  ( an abnormal increase of cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles of the brain )  and abnormal development of the channel or duct in the middle of the brain that connects the third and fourth ventricles .
a syndrome characterized by hypochromic anemia with leukopenia ,  splenomegaly ,  late onset hepatic cirrhosis and death from gastric hemorrhages .
a type of pilosebaceous hamartoma characterized by basal cell epitheliomata ,  epidermoid cysts and comedones ,  and epidermal atrophy .
a congenital hypotrichosis that is characterized by trichorrhexis nodosa and trichoptilosis ,  dry skin ,  keratosis pilaris and leukonychia totalis .
a condition resulting from the excessive retention of water with sodium depletion .
bobble - head doll syndrome  ( bhds )  is a rare neurological condition thatis typically first seen in childhood .
a syndrome characterized by spontaneous longitudinal transmural rupture of the esophagus ,  usually in its distal part .
familial syndrome combining short stature ,  microcephaly ,  mental deficiency ,  seizures ,  hearing loss ,  and skin lesions
dysplastic papular lesions presenting on the genitalia of either sex .
virus diseases caused by the lentivirus genus .
malignant lymphoma characterized by the presence of immunoblasts with uniformly round - to - oval nuclei ,  one or more prominent nucleoli ,  and abundant cytoplasm .
a slow growing ,  locally invasive neoplasm arising from tooth - forming tissues .
mild mental deficiency ,  short stature ,  macrocranium ,  cardiac anomalies ,  cutis laxa ,  peculiar facies ,  wrinkled palms and soles ,  small vertebral bodies
carbon baby syndrome ,  also known as universal acquired melanosis ,  is a rare form of hyperpigmentation .
a disorder of the skin ,  the oral mucosa ,  and the gingiva ,  that usually presents as a solitary polypoid capillary hemangioma often resulting from trauma .
catamenial pneumothorax is an extremely rare condition that affects women .
an infectious or non - infectious chronic inflammatory process that affects the prostate gland .
charles bonnet syndrome  ( cbs )  refers to the presenceof visual hallucinations in individuals with visual acuity loss without havingpsychosis or dementia .
a rare condition characterized by the secretion of colored sweat ,  caused by the deposition of lipofuscin in the sweat glands .
a cytogenetic abnormality that refers to the allelic loss of all or part of the short arm of chromosome 12 .
a rare syndrome affecting conjugate vertical eye movement .
colpocephaly is a congenital brain abnormality in which the occipital horns  -  the posterior or rear portion of the lateral ventricles  ( cavities )  of the brain  -  are larger than normal because white matter in the posterior cerebrum has failed to develop or thicken .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the blood vessels of the penis .
a progressive neurodegenerative condition affecting the cerebral cortex and basal ganglia .
syndrome with the association of stubby ,  coarse ,  sparse and fragile hair ,  eyebrows and eyelashes with photosensitivity and nonprogressive intellectual deficit ,  without a demonstrable metabolic aberration .
the absence of the septum pellucidum is a rare condition that affects the structure of the brain .
a disease characterized by acute lymphoblastic leukemia with the presence of congenital sporadic aniridia ,  the absence of an iris ,  where neither parent has aniridia .
a disease characterized by complete absence of tongue that can also be associated with limb deformities ,  syndromes and aberrant positioning of the visceral organs .
cortical malformations characterized by no gyri ,  broad gyri and / or an excessive number of abnormally small gyri that result in an irregular cortical surface with lumpy aspect .
a disorder of neuronal migration that is characterized by abnormal cortex morphology ,  with pathological features including a variably decreased brain size ,  enlarged ventricles representing a stage of fetal development rather than hydrocephalus ,  heterotopia of the inferior olivary bodies that lie between the corpus pontobulbare and their normal location ,  aberrant or absent corticospinal tract ,  heterotopia of cerebellar granules and abnormally shaped dentate nuclei .
a syndrome characterized by galactorrhea and amenorrhea with symptoms of estrogenic insufficiency and absence of urinary gonadotropins .
aluminosis is characterized as diffuse interstitial fibrosis which is mainly located in the upper and middle lobes of the lung .
a cardiopulmonary disorder characterized by systemic arterial hypoxemia secondary to pulmonary hypertension and extrapulmonary right to left shunting across the foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus .
a complication of poorly controlled type 1 diabetes mellitus in children characterized by linear growth impairment ,  glycogenic hepatopathy ,  and cushingoid features .
amyloidosis with tracheobronchial deposits in diffuse plaques that can cause stenosis or parenchymal nodules or masses .
an uncommon benign proliferation of smooth muscle ,  blood vessels ,  collagenous stroma ,  and adipocytes ,  most commonly affecting inguinal lymph node .
angiosarcoma of the scalp is a rare cancer which most commonly affects the elderly .
a syndrome characterized by congenital constriction bands ,  often deformity of the nails with distally located bands ,  and commonly a malformation of the hand .
a syndrome characterized by bilateral anophthalmos ,  hypospadias ,  bifid scrotum ,  micrognathia ,  and cleft palate with normal chromosomes .
a syndrome characterized by bilateral anophthalmia ,  esophageal atresia ,  and cryptorchidism .
a syndrome characterized by anotia  ( congenital absence of the pinna )  with a normal cochlea and vestibular apparatus ,  with facial paralysis caused by congenital absence of the entire right facial nerve ,  and congenital heart disease ,  which may present as atrioventricular septal defects or variations of tetralogy of fallot .
an inborn errors of metabolism disorder caused by homozygosity for mutations in the tap2 gene .
a syndrome characterized by arterial dissections ,  multiple lentigines ,  and cystic medial necrosis .
a syndrome characterized by severe intrauterine growth retardation ,  psychomotor delay and recurrent infections ,  craniofacial dysostosis ,  a progeroid appearance ,  arthrogryposis and camptodactylia .
a syndrome characterized by congenital contractures ,  scarce facial expressions ,  central nervous system dysfunction ,  and early death ,  as well as extensive deposits of calcium compounds in the nervous system and of skeletal muscle .
asternia ,  also known as a complete congenital sternal cleft ,  is a condition in which a bone called thesternum does not form properly .the sternumusuallyconnects to the ribs to form the ribcage .
atrophoderma of pierini and pasini is thought to possibly represent a late stage of morphea a type of localized scleroderma .
a syndrome characterized by rapidly progressive sensorineural hearing loss  ( snhl )  ,  that is often bilateral ,  and is potentially reversible .
autoimmune myocarditis is an autoimmune disease that affects the heart .
a clinical term that indicates the presence of a white patch on the surface of the gum which cannot be characterized as any other disease .
a polygenic and multifactorial disease that develops as a result of a complex interplay between genetic susceptibility and environmental and endogenous factors ,  which leads to the loss of immune tolerance to thyroid antigens and in particular to the tsh receptor .
a central nervous system vasculitis that has a benign course ,  with acute onset of neurologic symptoms ,  usually in the form of severe headache and / or a focal neurologic event .
a rare disorder that affects women with a history of uterine leiomyoma ,  which is found to metastasise within extrauterine sites .the disease develops as a proliferation of multiple nodules composed of smooth muscle cells .the most frequent site of metastasis is the lungs ,  although other areas may also be affected as well ,  including some atypical locations ,  e .g .
a syndromic disease characterised by a small ductal system and reduction in the number of interlobular bile ducts .
a congenital malformation syndrome characterized by partial duplication of the left lower limb and aplasia of the ipsilateral kidney ,  plus other congenital malformations .
a rare carcinoma of the bladder that occurs during childhood .
a syndrome characterized by expressionless facies ,  thickened facial skin ,  telecanthus with blepharophimosis ,  lacrimal duct anomalies ,  unusual nasal shape ,  and mild excess interdigital webbing .
a disease that involves the pharyngeal system development .
a brenner tumor that involves the vagina .
a rare carcinoid tumor that occurs during childhood .
a carcinoma that involves the laryngeal vocal fold .
a specific change in the mttk gene causes a condition characterized by weakened heart muscle  ( cardiomyopathy )  and hearing loss .
a syndromic cataract that has autosomal dominant inheritance .
degeneration of the cerebellum .it may be an inherited condition ,  a paraneoplastic syndrome ,  or secondary to autoimmune disorders .
a subtype of cerebral palsy characterized by involuntary ,  purposeless writhing movements which affect the hands ,  feet ,  arms ,  and legs ;  the face and tongue may be affected as well ,  leading to involuntary grimacing ,  drooling ,  dysarthria and difficulty eating .
chester porphyria is a unique type of porphyria with the signs and symptoms of acute intermittent porphyria  ( aip )  and the biochemical defects of both aip and variegate porphyria  ( vp )  .
this is an x - linked recessive retinal degenerative disease that leads to degeneration of the choriocapillaris ,  the retinal pigment epithelium ,  and the photoreceptor of the eye .
asthma attacks caused ,  triggered ,  or exacerbated by occupational exposure .
a abnormal ,  congenital formation or mark on the skin or neighboring mucosa that does not show neoplastic growth .
a cytogenetic abnormality that refers to the allelic loss of all or part of the short arm of chromosome 17 .
chromosome 1q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on thelong arm  ( q )  of chromosome 1 .
chromosome 20 trisomy ,   ( also called trisomy 20 )  is a condition in which a fetus or individual has an extra full or partial copy of chromosome 20 in some or allof of his / her cells .
trisomy 22 is a chromosome disorder in which an extra  ( third )  copy of chromosome 22 is present in every cell of the body where there should normally only be two copies .
a vascular sarcoma that commonly occurs in the lower extremities .
coccygodynia is a rare condition in that causes pain in and around the coccyx  ( tailbone )  .
a structural cytogenetic abnormality characterized by partial or complete loss of chromosome 8 .
cold urticaria is a condition that affects the skin .
any disease or disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col2a1 gene .
a disorder with basis in disruption of a complement receptor .
a severe form of hallermann - streiff syndrome ,  observed in one family .
a congenital anatomic anomaly in which the heart has only two chambers .
congenital hypothyroidism in which fetal deficiency was severe because of complete absence  ( athyreosis )  of the gland .
an crohn disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the esophagus .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cytokine activity .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cytokine receptor activity .
an n - of - 1 disease characterized by hearing loss ,  almost white hair ,  a psoriasiform rash with hyperkaratotic papillomata ,  muscle contractures ,  and depressed granulocyte and monocyte chemotaxis ,  dominant hearing loss ,  white hair ,  contractures ,  hyperkeratotic papillomata ,  and muscle contractures ,  and depressed granulocyte and monocyte chemotaxis .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of 1 - pyrroline - 5 - carboxylate dehydrogenase activity .
a who grade i large cystic tumor that occurs almost exclusively in infants ,  with a prominent desmoplastic stroma having a neuroepithelial population consisting mainly of neoplastic astrocytes .
a who grade i large cystic tumor that occurs almost exclusively in infants ,  with a prominent desmoplastic stroma having a neuroepithelial population of neoplastic astrocytes together with a variable neuronal component .
dextrocardia with situs inversus is a condition that is characterized by abnormal positioning of the heart and other internal organs .
diabetic mastopathy are noncancerous lesions in the breast most commonly diagnosed in premenopausal women with type 1 diabetes .
a very rare condition characterized by generalized proliferation of pulmonary neuroendocrine cells .
diploid - triploid mosaicism is a chromosome disorder .
diabetes insipidus caused by excessive intake of water due to psychological factors or damage to the thirst - regulating mechanism .
inflammation of the lacrimal sac in a newborn due to blocked drainage of tears or infection .
eagle syndrome is characterized by recurrent pain in the middle part of the throat  ( oropharynx )  and face .
klumpke paralysis is a type of brachial palsy in newborns .
eosinophilic cystitis  ( ec )  is a rare inflammatory bladder condition caused by the build up of eosinophils in the bladder .
eosinophilic pustular folliculitis  ( epf )  is a skin disorder characterized by recurring itchy ,  red or skin - colored bumps and pustules  ( bumps containing pus )  .
a clinical term that refers to the presence of a red flat and well defined lesion on the oral mucosa that is not caused by trauma ,  vascular ,  or inflammatory processes .
exogenous ochronosis refers tothe bluish - black discoloration of certain tissues ,  such as the ear cartilage ,  the ocular  ( eye )  tissue ,  and other body locations when it is due toexposure to various substances .it has been reported most commonly with topical application of hydroquinones to the skin .
familial colon cancer is a cluster of colon cancer within a family .
prostate carcinoma that has developed in relatives of patients with a history of prostate carcinoma .
febrile ulceronecrotic mucha - habermann disease  ( fumhd )  is a rare and severe form of pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta  ( pleva )  .
a syndrome caused by hpiv - 3 .
fibrocartilaginous embolism  ( fce )  is a rare type of embolism  ( sudden blocking of an artery )  that occurs in the spinal cord .
fitz - hugh - curtis syndrome  ( fhcs )  is a condition in which a woman has swelling of the tissue covering the liver as a result of having pelvic inflammatory disease  ( pid )  .
myocarditis that is caused by an infection with a viral agent .
pericarditis that is caused by an infection with a viral agent .
foix - chavany - marie syndrome  ( fcms )  is a cortico - subcortical suprabulbar or pseudobulbar palsy of the lower cranial nerves ,  characterized by severe dysarthria and dysphagia associated with bilateral central facio - pharyngo - glosso - masticatory paralysis ,  with prominent automatic - voluntary dissociation in which involuntary movements of the affected muscles are preserved .
freiberg's disease is rare condition that primarily affects the second or third metatarsal  ( the long bones of the foot )  .
a low or intermediate grade well differentiated tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the pancreas .
an instance of reflex epilepsy that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a form of diabetes insipidus that manifests during pregnancy  ( or in some cases ,  after pregnancy )  .
an often fatal inflammatory disorder that affects the myocardium .
a rare melanocytic lesion occurring at birth ,  comprising at least 5% of the body surface area .
the glass - chapman - hockley syndrome is a very rare disease .
linear porokeratosis is a rare skin condition characterized by streaks of reddish - brown patches surrounded by a ridge - like border .the patches usually develop in infants or young children ,  but they sometimes develop in adults .
any glycogen storage disease due to glucose - 6 - phosphatase deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc37a4 gene .
a morphologic variant of dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans characterized by the presence of melanin - pigmented dendritic cells .
cystic hamartoma of lung and kidney is a rare developmental malformation reported in 3 patients characterized by the presence of benign hamartomatous cysts in kidney and lung ,  clinically presenting as abdominal mass .
granulomatous hypophysitis is rare pathology that mimics pituitary adenoma .
a granulosa - stromal cell tumor that arises from the ovary .
guttate psoriasis is a skin condition in which small ,  red ,  and scaly teardrop - shaped spots appear on the arms ,  legs ,  and middle of the body .it is a relatively uncommon form of psoriasis .
heavy metal poisoning refers to when excessive exposure to a heavy metal affects the normal function of the body .
cleft palate ,  micrognathia ,  wormian bones ,  congenital heart disease ,  dislocated hips ,  absent tibiae ,  bowed fibulae ,  preaxial polydactyly of the feet
a disease that involves the facial skeleton .
either an isolated neoplasm or a syndrome with neoplasm as a major feature .
pityriasis rotunda is a rare skindisease characterized by round ,  scaly ,  pigmented patches that mainly occur on the trunk ,  arms and legs .
a fungal infection by any of the candida species that is present at birth .
hyperprolinemia is when there isan excess of a particular protein building block  ( amino acid )  ,  called proline ,  in the blood .
an infectious process affecting the skeletal muscles .
a syndrome caused by kaposi sarcoma - associated herpesvirus  ( kshv )  infection .
c1q nephropathy is a kidney disease in which a large amount of protein is lost in the urine .
testicular failure ,  the cause of which is not present at birth .
an infectious process affecting the vagina .
myotonic dystrophy that is present at birth .
laryngeal papillomatosis is a form of recurrent respiratory papillomatosis where tumors  ( papillomas )  grow in the larynx  ( voice box )  .symptoms usually begin with hoarseness and / or a change in the voice .some people mayexperience difficulty breathing  ( dyspnea )  and / or experience other life - threatening complications if the papillomas block the airway .
a form of skeletal dysplasia characterized by shortening of the bones of the middle segments of the limbs  ( i .e . ,  the radii ,  ulnae ,  tibiae and fibulae )  .
a milder form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia characterized by decreased activity of an enzyme in the steroidogenic pathway ,  typically presenting later in life ,  that does not require life - long cortisol replacement .
an inherited genetic disorder that affects the connective tissues .
lentigo maligna melanoma  ( lmm )  is a type of skin cancer that usually develops in older ,  fair - skinnedadults .
levator syndrome is characterized by sporadic pain in the rectum caused by spasm of a muscle near the anus  ( the levator ani muscle )  .
a carcinoma arising in the lip or oral cavity .
lipodermatosclerosis refers to changes in the skin of the lower legs .
littoral cell angioma is a rare primary vascular neoplasm of the spleen ,  composed of littoral cells that line the splenic sinuses of the red pulp .
hematohidrosis is a rare condition characterized by blood oozing from intact skin and mucosa .
a benign or malignant middle ear paraganglioma arising from paraganglia around the tympanum .
a maple syrup urine disease caused by mutations in bckdha .
a maple syrup urine disease caused by mutations in bckdhb .
a maple syrup urine disease caused by mutations in dbt .
a disease with similar features to marinesco - sjogren syndrome .
a form of blepharo - cheilo - dontic syndrome with with cleft lip and palate ,  complete absence of deciduous teeth ,  hypodontia of permanent teeth ,  hair alterations ,  hypertelorism ,  midface hypoplasia ,  abnormal eeg ,  syndactyly ,  and other findings .
an extragonadal non - seminomatous malignant germ cell tumor that arises from the mediastinum .
meralgia paresthetica is a condition characterized by tingling ,  numbness and burning pain in the outer thigh .
multifocal choroiditis  ( mfc )  is an inflammatory disorder characterized by swelling of the eye  ( called uveitis )  and multiple lesions in the choroid ,  a layer of blood vessels between the white of the eye and the retina .
a viral or bacterial infectious process affecting the cornea .
melanoma - associated retinopathy  ( mar )  is a rare autoimmune condition that occurs in some people with melanoma  ( a type of skin cancer )  and can affect the vision .
noonan - like / multiple giant cell lesion syndrome  ( ns / mgcls )  is a term used to describe a subgroup of people with noonan syndrome who also have giant cell lesions  ( benign tumor - like lesions that most frequently occur in the jaws but may also affect other bones or soft tissues )  and resemble individuals who have cherubism .
a usually benign tumor composed of solid and cystic nests of epithelial cells resembling transitional epithelium ;  it is surrounded by an abundant stromal component that is dense and fibroblastic in nature .
a disorder characterized by the progressive loss of function and / or structure of the affected tissues .
an inherited disorder characterized by progressive degeneration and atrophy of the nervous system .
a neurodegenerative disease that involves the telencephalon .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cardiovascular system development .
an adenocarcinoma with eccrine differentiation arising from the sweat glands .
a rare ,  benign eccrine neoplasm usually arising on acral areas as a solitary papular or nodular lesion .
a non - metastasizing eccrine appendage sweat gland neoplasm .
a name originally applied to a group of skin diseases characterized by the formation of fine ,  branny scales ,  but now used only with a modifier .
a rare cutaneous disorder of unknown etiology that can present either as an acute condition ,  with multiple papular lesions which become vesicular and necrotic  ( pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta )  or chronic ,  with small ,  scaling papules  ( pityriasis lichenoides chronica )  .
a neurological syndrome caused by severe mercury poisoning .
an instance of skin disease that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of motor neuron disease that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
aspiration of meconium ,  blood ,  amniotic fluid or gastric contents around the time of delivery resulting in clinical symptoms from airway obstruction ,  parenchymal injury ,  and ventilation - perfusion mismatch .
a congenital hypothyroidism that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the pax8 gene on chromosome 2q13 .
duane syndrome type 1 is the most common type of duane syndrome ,  an eye movement disorder that is present at birth .
any patent ductus arteriosus in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prdm6 gene .
a mycosis that is limited to the stratum corneum and essentially elicits no inflammation .
infections of the intestines with parasites ,  commonly involving parasitic worms .
a parasitic helminthiasis infectious disease that involves the intestine .
dysentery caused by intestinal amebic infection ,  chiefly with entamoeba histolytica .
inflammation of the rectum and colon .
a non - granulomatous or granulomatous chronic inflammation of the endometrium .
an arthritis affecting five or more separate joints .
a group of conditions used to describe polyarthritis occurring in children .
an invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that contain intracytoplasmic mucin and may resemble the epithelial cells of the endocervix or gastrointestinal tract .
a demodicidosis that involves the hair follicle .
a demodicidosis that involves the sebaceous gland .
a benign neoplasm arising from arteries or veins .
a congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins ,  lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels .
a disease characterized by elevated level of the pigment bilirubin in the blood .
an elimination disorder characterized by urinary incontinence ,  whether involuntary or intentional ,  which is not due to a medical condition and which occurs at or beyond an age at which continence is expected  ( usually 5 years )  .
a non - neoplastic disorder that is the result of defects of vascular morphogenesis .
a polypoid tumor that arises from any part of the gastrointestinal tract and protrudes into the lumen .
skin diseases caused by bacteria ,  fungi ,  parasites ,  or viruses .
skin diseases caused by bacteria .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant neoplasm arising from vascular tissue including arteries ,  veins ,  venous sinuses ,  lymphatic vessels ,  arterioles and capillaries .
a collective term for nutritional disorders resulting from poor absorption or nutritional imbalance ,  and metabolic disorders resulting from defects in biosynthesis  ( anabolism )  or breakdown  ( catabolism )  of endogenous substances .
a disorder that is caused by the deficiency of a vitamin .
rickets due to low serum phosphate concentrations ,  the cause of which can be nutritional or genetic .
an instance of mineral metabolism disease that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a condition resulting from accidental ingestion of leeches in drinking water .
the attachment of leeches to the skin .
the most common form of ichthyosis .
an instance of hyperprolactinemia  ( disease )  that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an instance of lactic acidosis that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an inherited disorder that causes calcium and other minerals to accumulate in the elastic fibers of the skin ,  eyes ,  and blood vessels ,  and less frequently in other areas such as the digestive tract .
a hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 2 characterized by progressive sensory neuropathy with onset in childhood that has material basis in mutation in the hsn2 isoform of the wnk1 gene on chromosome 12p13
a angiodysplasia that involves the stomach .
a cancer that involves the limb bone .
an infection caused by staphylococcus .
the presence of parasites  ( especially malarial parasites )  in the blood .
infection of the epicondyles by a parasite .
a dysfunction in biological function that is due to a psychological process .
chronic form of disorder involving pain .
a rare neoplasm that arises from the inner ear .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of gpi anchor biosynthetic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of glycosylation .
a morphologic variant of the glomus tumor with architectural features similar to solid glomus tumor .
a glomangiomyoma that involves the zone of skin .
a rare benign neoplasm that arises from the mesothelial cells of the pleura .
impairment of the renal function due to chronic kidney damage .
inflammation of the anatomical structures of the middle ear secondary to an infectious process .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm that arises from the colon or rectum and invades through the muscularis mucosa into the submucosa .
allergic rhinitis caused by indoor allergens and lasting year round .
a condition characterized by pain radiating from the back into the buttock and posterior / lateral aspects of the leg .
an adenocarcinoma that arises from the vulva .
a neoplasm involving a urothelium .
a neoplasm involving a lymph node .
a neuroblastoma arising from the retina .
a neoplasm arising from the neural retina .
an instance of pityriasis rubra pilaris that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a respiratory tract infection caused by a virus .
pneumonia caused by cytomegalovirus .most humans are exposed to cytomegalovirus .
invasion of the host respiratory system by microorganisms ,  usually leading to pathological processes or diseases .
a distinct form of sleep - disordered breathing characterized as central sleep apnea  ( csa )  ,  and presents in obstructive sleep apnea  ( osa )  patients during initial treatment with a continuous positive airway pressure  ( cpap )  device .
a persistent or recurrent pattern of sleep disruption that is primarily due to an alteration of the circadian system or to a misalignment between the endogenous circadian rhythm and the sleep - wake schedule required by an individual's physical environment or social or professional schedule .
a circadian sleep disorder in which the individual's internal body clock is delayed with respect to the external day / night cycle .
a circadian sleep disorder characterized by bedtime and wake - up time much earlier than normal ,  although sleep quality is normal .
a circadian sleep disorder characterized by at least three sleep episodes per 24 - hour period ,  irregularly from day to day .
a circadian sleep disorder that results from travelling across time zones .
a circadian sleep disorder that occurs when work schedules force people to be awake when their circadian rhythms dictate that they should be sleeping .
a morphologic variant of large cell lung carcinoma characterized by a predominance of clear cells that may or may not contain glycogen .
a sex cord - stromal tumor arising from the ovary ,  without metastatic potential .
infections with bacteria of the genus clostridium .
a disease caused by infection with bifidobacterium .
a disease caused by infection with peptostreptococcus .
a disease caused by infection with neorickettsia .
cognitive disorders characterized by an impaired ability to perceive the nature of objects or concepts through use of the sense organs .
inflammation at the site of insertion of ligaments ,  tendons ,  and other fibrous structures into bone .
acquired or developmental cognitive disorders of auditory perception characterized by a reduced ability to perceive information contained in auditory stimuli despite intact auditory pathways .
a disorienting neuropsychological condition that affects perception .
a neurological disorder in which a sensory stimulus ,  usually tactile but more rarely other sensory modalities ,  is misperceived in a location distant from the original stimulus .
a disease that involves the nerve plexus .
a disease that involves the sacral nerve plexus .
any autosomal dominant robinow syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wnt5a gene .
an iridogoniodysgenesis that results from alterations in the forkhead transcription factor gene  ( foxc1 ) 
a disease that involves the visual system .
a benign diffuse vascular proliferation usually occurring in young adults .
an instance of cutaneous melanoma  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
any combined pituitary hormone deficiencies ,  genetic form in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pou1f1 gene .
a disease that involves the apocrine sweat gland .
a disease that involves the adenohypophysis .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant cartilaginous matrix - producing neoplasm .
a non - metastasizing cartilaginous matrix - producing neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic chondrocytes .
an infectious disease of the mediterranean area ,  the crimea ,  africa ,  and india ,  caused by infection with rickettsia conorii subsp .
an infectious disease of the astrakhan region ,  chad ,  kosovo ,  caused by infection with rickettsia conorii subsp .
a precancerous neoplastic process that affects the squamous ,  glandular ,  or transitional cell epithelium without evidence of invasion .
a epithelial neoplasm that involves the rectum .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the liver parenchyma or intrahepatic bile ducts .
a epithelial neoplasm that involves the colon .
a disease that involves the cutaneous appendage .
a hamartoma characterized by localized eccrine sweat gland malformation .
hyperplasia of the transitional epithelium of the urinary tract .
a type of hyperplasia that is characterized by variable thickening of the urinary tract epithelium and a slight papillary growth .
an infectious process affecting the nail .
a modifier that can be applied to a tumor class describing abnormal tumor histology or morphology .
a term that refers to the cellular differentiation of a malignant cellular infiltrate .
a morphologic qualifier indicating that a cancerous lesion is well differentiated .
a morphologic qualifier indicating that a cancerous lesion is moderately differentiated .
a morphologic qualifier indicating that a cancerous lesion is poorly differentiated .
a morphologic qualifier indicating that a cancerous lesion is undifferentiated .
a morphologic qualifier indicating that a neoplastic lesion is moderately to poorly differentiated .
used to describe tumor samples that exhibit poorly differentiated or undifferentiated cells .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant vascular neoplasm that arises from the bone .
a neuroendocrine neoplasm that involves the duodenum .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the appendix .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the gallbladder .
a neoplasm with neuroendocrine differentiation arising from the digestive system .
a usually slow - growing ,  grade 1 pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor that secretes serotonin .
a broad grouping of diseases based on major body subdivisions .
any adams - oliver syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the arhgap31 gene .
an instance of hidradenitis suppurativa that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a thrombocytosis caused by an underlying condition ,  such as an infection .
any primary cutaneous amyloidosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the osmr gene .
any aortic valve disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the notch1 gene .
any zimmermann - laband syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnh1 gene .
any autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the polg gene .
any tubular aggregate myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the stim1 gene .
any otofaciocervical syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the eya1 gene .
any primary pulmonary hypertension in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the bmpr2 gene .
any dowling - degos disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the krt5 gene .
any singleton - merten dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ifih1 gene .
any familial glucocorticoid deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mc2r gene .
any brown - vialetto - van laere syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc52a3 gene .
any central areolar choroidal dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gucy2d gene .
any jervell and lange - nielsen syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the kcnq1 gene .
any tricho - hepato - enteric syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ttc37 gene .
any dysequilibrium syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vldlr gene .
any brittle cornea syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the znf469 gene .
any miyoshi myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dysf gene .
any primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hpgd gene .
any pancreatic agenesis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pdx1 gene .
any peeling skin syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdsn gene .
any frontometaphyseal dysplasia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the flna gene .
a rare ,  genetic ,  primary immunodeficiency disorder characterized by an abnormal immune response to epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  infection ,  caused by hemizygous mutations in the x - linked sh2d1a gene ,  resulting in b cell lymphoproliferation and manifesting with various phenotypes which include ebv - driven severe or fulminant mononucleosis ,  hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis  ( presenting with fulminant hepatitis ,  hepatic necrosis ,  bone marrow hypoplasia ,  and neurological involvement )  ,  hypogammaglobulinemia ,  and b - cell lymphoma .
any microphthalmia with linear skin defects syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hccs gene .
any myopathy ,  lactic acidosis ,  and sideroblastic anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the pus1 gene .
any d - 2 - hydroxyglutaric aciduria in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the d2hgdh gene .
any epilepsy ,  familial focal ,  with variable foci in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the depdc5 gene .
any ataxia - telangiectasia - like disorder in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mre11 gene .
any radio - ulnar synostosis - amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the hoxa11 gene .
any vitelliform macular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the prph2 gene .
any sick sinus syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn5a gene .
any herpes simplex encephalitis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the unc93b1 gene .
any coats plus syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ctc1 gene .
any ectodermal dysplasia - syndactyly syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nectin4 gene .
any hypotonia ,  infantile ,  with psychomotor retardation and characteristic facies in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nalcn gene .
any infantile liver failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lars gene .
any familial isolated hyperparathyroidism in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gcm2 gene .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder arising as a result of the immunologic defects caused by autoimmune deficiency syndrome .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that develops in a patient with immunodeficiency .
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy caused by mutations in the genes encoding components of the sarcomere ,  in the absence of predisposing conditions .
hereditary or acquired coagulation disorder characterized by a qualitative or quantitative deficiency of the von willebrand factor .
a disorder that is related to pregnancy .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant neoplasm that affects the male reproductive system .
the protrusion of part of an organ or fibroadipose tissue through an abnormal opening .
a congenital muscular dystrophy characterized by onset of progressive muscle weakness in early childhood with autosomal recessive inheritance that has material basis in homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the inpp5k gene  ( 607875 )  on chromosome 17p13 .
gastrointestinal infection with organisms of the genus dientamoeba .
an invasive squamous cell carcinoma arising from the vulva .
skin diseases caused by arthropods ;  helminths ;  or other parasites .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the orbit .
the manic phase of bipolar disorder .
the depressive stage of bipolar disorder .
a term used for any state of depression that is not psychotic .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the tympanic membrane .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with enterovirus c .
an infectious process that affects the brain and / or spinal cord .
a malignant serous cystic neoplasm usually involving the ovary or the pancreas .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the follicular cells of the thyroid gland .
pathological processes of the ear ,  the nose ,  and the throat ,  also known as the ent diseases .
a degenerative disorder that involves the lacrimal gland .
a disease that involves the lacrimal gland .
kidney damage that results from chronically elevated blood pressure ;  complications include glomerular damage resulting in proteinuria and hematuria .
a disease that involves the large intestine .
a disease that involves the small intestine .
an inflammatory disease involving a pathogenic inflammatory response in the heart layer .
a malignant neoplasm arising exclusively from the soft tissues .
a neuroendocrine tumor arising from the pancreas .
a well differentiated neuroendocrine tumor that arises from the stomach .
a well differentiated ,  intermediate grade tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the stomach .
a disorder that affects the muscle tissue of the heart .
a disorder of cardiac function caused by insufficient blood flow to the muscle tissue of the heart .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the retroperitoneum .
stone ( s )  within the urinary tract .
a meningioma that affects the visual pathway .
an astrocytoma that affects the optic tract .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the bones and structures of the skull .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects structures of the skull .
an extranodal lymphoma that arises from the colon or rectum .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts .
a kaposi sarcoma that arises from the colon or rectum .
a usually polypoid neoplasm arising from the glandular epithelium .
an epithelial neoplasm morphologically characterized by the presence of a villous and a tubular architectural pattern .
a neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the colonic and rectal mucosa .
a hypertensive disorder that develops during pregnancy .
a form of epithelial skin neoplasm without malignant characteristics .
a lymphangioma arising from the skin .
a rare neoplastic syndrome characterized by obstruction of the thoracic outlet leading to compression of the brachial plexus and vessels within .
wilms tumor of the kidney which occurs in adults .
a wilms tumor of the kidney which occurs in children .
an insulin - producing neuroendocrine tumor arising from the beta cells of the pancreas .
a locally aggressive ,  diffusely infiltrating tumor ,  arising in the tendon sheath .
a mixed epithelial stromal tumor of the kidney with malignant stromal features .
a benign neoplasm arising from the synovial membrane .
a neoplasm that arises from the choroid plexus in the brain and occurs during childhood .
a teratoma composed of immature ,  fetal - type tissues .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the heart and / or vessels .
a brainstem neoplasm that occurs in an adult .
a neoplasm originating from the apical lung .
an immature teratoma that develops as a primary tumor in an anatomic site other than the testis or ovary .
a carcinoma that has spread to the adrenal medulla from an adjacent or distant anatomic site .
a carcinoma that arises from the clitoris .
a disease that involves the tendon sheath .
a neoplasm involving a clitoris .
a carcinoma that arises from a pre - existing lower grade epithelial lesion ,  or as a result of a primary carcinoma that has spread to secondary sites ,  or due to a complication of a cancer treatment .
a carcinoma which has spread from the original site of growth to another anatomic site .
a malignant tumor that has spread from its original  ( primary )  site of growth to another site close to or distant from the primary site .
a malignant neoplasm that arises from a pre - existing lower grade lesion ,  or as a result of a primary lesion that has spread to secondary sites ,  or due to a complication of a cancer treatment .
a neoplasm that arises from a pre - existing lower grade lesion ,  or as a result of a primary lesion that has spread to secondary sites ,  or due to a complication of a cancer treatment .
a tumor that has spread from its original  ( primary )  site of growth to another site ,  close to or distant from the primary site .
a carcinoma that has spread to the bone from another ,  primary anatomic site .
an invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that ,  in well differentiated tumors ,  resemble the epithelium of the fallopian tube or ,  in poorly differentiated tumors ,  show anaplastic features and marked nuclear atypia .
a benign adenofibroma characterized by the presence of serous secretory cells and minute cystic spaces filled with watery fluid .
an epithelial neoplasm of the female reproductive system arising from mesonephric remnants .
a benign epithelial neoplasm of the female reproductive system arising from mesonephric remnants .
a neoplasm arising from the pineocyte ,  a cell with photosensory and neuroendocrine functions .
a soft tissue neoplasm composed of acellular amyloid material .
diseases of birds not considered poultry ,  therefore usually found in zoos ,  parks ,  and the wild .
diseases of the domestic cat  ( felis catus or f . domesticus )  .
diseases of domestic cattle of the genus bos .
diseases of the domestic dog  ( canis familiaris )  .
diseases of freshwater ,  marine ,  hatchery or aquarium fish .
a disease of the horny parts and of the adjacent soft structures of the feet of cattle ,  swine ,  and sheep .
inflammation of the liver in non - human animals .
diseases of domestic and wild horses of the species equus caballus .
a departure from the normal gait in animals .
a condition produced in humans by the prolonged migration of animal nematode larvae in extraintestinal tissues other than skin ;  characterized by persistent hypereosinophilia ,  hepatomegaly ,  and frequently pneumonitis ,  commonly caused by toxocara canis and toxocara cati .
infections or infestations with parasitic organisms .
a disease of pregnant and lactating cows and ewes leading to generalized paresis and death .
a cattle disease of uncertain cause ,  probably an allergic reaction .
diseases of rodents of the order rodentia .
infections in animals with bacteria of the genus salmonella .
diseases of domestic and mountain sheep of the genus ovis .
diseases of domestic swine and of the wild boar of the genus sus .
diseases of the domestic or wild goat of the genus capra .
diseases of animals within the order primates .
a viral disease caused by at least two distinct species  ( serotypes )  in the vesiculovirus genus: vesicular stomatitis indiana virus and vesicular stomatitis new jersey virus .
highly contagious infectious dermatitis with lesions near the interdigital spaces usually in cattle .
an acute disease of young pigs that is usually associated with weaning .
a picornavirus infection producing symptoms similar to poliomyelitis in pigs .
an acute generalized dermatitis of pigs which occurs from 5 to 35 days of age ,  characterized by sudden onset ,  with morbidity of 10 to 90% and mortality of 5 to 90% .
infestation of animals with parasitic worms of the helminth class .
inflammation of the liver in animals due to viral infection .
a hereditary disease of the hip joints in dogs .
an acute ,  highly contagious disease affecting swine of all ages and caused by the classical swine fever virus .
a herpesvirus infection of cattle characterized by inflammation and necrosis of the mucous membranes of the upper respiratory tract .
any of a group of infections of fowl caused by protozoa of the genera plasmodium ,  leucocytozoon ,  and haemoproteus .
a herpesvirus infection of cattle characterized by catarrhal inflammation of the upper respiratory and alimentary epithelia ,  keratoconjunctivitis ,  encephalitis and lymph node enlargement .
inflammation of the udder in cows .
diseases of old world and new world monkeys .
diseases of birds which are raised as a source of meat or eggs for human consumption and are usually found in barnyards ,  hatcheries ,  etc .
infections with unicellular organisms formerly members of the subkingdom protozoa .
an acute and chronic contagious disease of young pigs caused by erysipelothrix insidiosa .
an enterovirus infection of swine clinically indistinguishable from foot - and - mouth disease ,  vesicular stomatitis ,  and vesicular exanthema of swine .
a variety of tuberculosis affecting various birds ,  including chickens and ducks .
an infection of cattle caused by mycobacterium bovis .
a calicivirus infection of swine characterized by hydropic degeneration of the oral and cutaneous epithelia .
a myodegeneration most frequent in calves and lambs whose dams have been fed during gestation or longer on feeds ,  especially legumes  ( fabaceae )  ,  grown in certain areas where selenium is either deficient or unavailable in the soil .
a transmissible spongiform encephalopathy of cattle associated with abnormal prion proteins in the brain .
diseases of chimpanzees ,  gorillas ,  and orangutans .
clinically severe acute disease of cattle caused by noncytopathic forms of bovine viral diarrhea virus 2  ( diarrhea virus 2 ,  bovine viral )  .
a chronic ,  clinically mild ,  infectious pneumonia of pigs caused by mycoplasma hyopneumoniae .
a congenital reproductive abnormality in white female offspring  ( heifers )  in certain breeds of cattle ,  such as belgian blue and shorthorn .
a group of pathologic syndromes found in avian species caused by reticuloendotheliosis virus .
oculopharyngodistal myopathy  ( opdm )  is a rare ,  adult - onset hereditary muscle disease .
infection of horses with parasitic nematodes of the superfamily strongyloidea .
acquired infection of non - human animals by organisms of the genus toxoplasma .
infection in cattle caused by various species of trypanosomes .
an acute ,  transmissible ,  infectious disease associated with high mortality and morbidity in young turkeys  ( poults )  .
bacterial ,  viral ,  or parasitic diseases transmitted to humans and animals by the bite of infected ticks .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with anaplasma .
an arbovirus infection of sheep and goats transmitted by ticks .
tumors or cancer of the urogenital system in either the male or the female .
virus infections caused by the parvoviridae .
an insect - borne reovirus infection of horses ,  mules and donkeys in africa and the middle east ;  characterized by pulmonary edema ,  cardiac involvement ,  and edema of the head and neck .
a sometimes fatal asfivirus infection of pigs ,  characterized by fever ,  cough ,  diarrhea ,  hemorrhagic lymph nodes ,  and edema of the gallbladder .
a group of transmissible viral diseases of chickens and turkeys .
connective tissue tumors ,  affecting primarily fowl ,  that are usually caused by avian sarcoma viruses .
a reovirus infection ,  chiefly of sheep ,  characterized by a swollen blue tongue ,  catarrhal inflammation of upper respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts ,  and often by inflammation of sensitive laminae of the feet and coronet .
a disease of cattle caused by bacteria of the genus brucella leading to abortion in late pregnancy .
a viral disease caused by canine distemper virus that affects a wide variety of animal families ,  including domestic and wild species of dogs ,  coyotes ,  foxes ,  pandas ,  wolves ,  ferrets ,  skunks ,  raccoons ,  and large cats ,  as well as pinnipeds ,  some primates ,  and a variety of other species .
an acute ,  highly contagious virus disease of turkeys characterized by chilling ,  anorexia ,  decreased water intake ,  diarrhea ,  dehydration and weight loss .
a highly contagious dna virus infection of the cat family ,  characterized by fever ,  enteritis and bone marrow changes .
a poxvirus infection of poultry and other birds characterized by the formation of wart - like nodules on the skin and diphtheritic necrotic masses  ( cankers )  in the upper digestive and respiratory tracts .
a persistent skin infection marked by the presence of furuncles ,  often chronic and recurrent .
a condition of chronic gastroenteritis in adult pigs and fatal gastroenteritis in piglets caused by a coronavirus .
a contagious disease caused by canine adenovirus  ( adenoviruses ,  canine )  infecting the liver ,  the eye ,  the kidney ,  and other organs in dogs ,  other canids ,  and bears .
infectious diseases of cattle ,  sheep ,  and goats ,  characterized by blepharospasm ,  lacrimation ,  conjunctivitis ,  and varying degrees of corneal opacity and ulceration .
a chronic gastroenteritis in ruminants caused by mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis .
chronic respiratory disease caused by the visna - maedi virus .
a contagious ,  neoplastic ,  pulmonary disease of sheep characterized by hyperplasia and hypertrophy of pneumocytes and epithelial cells of the lung .
a viral disease of cloven - hoofed animals caused by morbillivirus .
tumors most commonly seen on or near the genitalia .
an infectious disease of non - human animals that may be transmitted to humans or may be transmitted from humans to non - human animals ,  caused by a pathogen  ( an infectious agent ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  parasites ,  prions ,  etc )  .
tumors or cancer of the mammary gland in animals  ( mammary glands ,  animal )  .
acquired defect of cellular immunity that occurs naturally in macaques infected with srv serotypes ,  experimentally in monkeys inoculated with srv or mason - pfizer monkey virus ;   ( mpmv )  ,  or in monkeys infected with simian immunodeficiency virus .
acquired defect of cellular immunity that occurs in cats infected with feline immunodeficiency virus  ( fiv )  and in some cats infected with feline leukemia virus  ( felv )  .
acquired defect of cellular immunity that occurs in mice infected with mouse leukemia viruses  ( mulv )  .
a neoplastic disease of cats frequently associated with feline leukemia virus infection .
a lymphoid neoplastic disease in cattle caused by the bovine leukemia virus .
common coronavirus infection of cats caused by the feline infectious peritonitis virus  ( coronavirus ,  feline )  .
a syndrome characterized by outbreaks of late term abortions ,  high numbers of stillbirths and mummified or weak newborn piglets ,  and respiratory disease in young unweaned and weaned pigs .
a highly contagious parvovirus infection in mink ,  caused by mink enteritis virus or the closely related feline panleukopenia virus or canine parvovirus .
a worldwide emerging disease of weaned piglets first recognized in swine herds in western canada in 1997 .
a granulomatous disease caused by the aquatic organism pythium insidiosum and occurring primarily in horses ,  cattle ,  dogs ,  cats ,  fishes ,  and rarely in humans .
an instance of neuroendocrine neoplasm that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of type ii hypersensitivity .
an autoimmune form of urticaria  ( disease )  .
livedoid vasculopathy is a blood vessel disorder that causes painful ulcers and scarring  ( atrophie blanche )  on the feet and lower legs .
a allergic disease involving a shrimp food product .
a allergic disease involving a acetylsalicylic acid .
an pneumonia caused by infection with chlamydia .
ovarian remnant syndrome  ( ors )  is characterized by the presence of residual ovarian tissue after a woman has had surgery to remove one ovary or both ovaries  ( oophorectomy )  .
prurigonodularis  ( pn )  is a skin disease in which hard crusty lumps are formed on the skin that itches intensely .
a verrucous carcinoma of the skin or mucosa that occurs in the anogenital region .
hhv - 6 encephalitis refers to inflammation of the brain due to an infection with human herpesvirus 6 .
any mitochondrial complex 1 deficiency ,  mitochondrial type 1 ,  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the mtnd3 gene .
a dyskeratosis congenita that has material basis in an autosomal recessive mutation of tert on chromosome 5p15 .33 .
an autosomal dominant non - syndromic intellectual disability that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of ehmt1 on chromosome 9q34 .3 .
an autosomal recessive cutis laxa type ii classic type characterized by cardiovascular and neurologic involvement and that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the atp6v1a gene on chromosome 3q13 .
an autosomal recessive cutis laxa type ii classic type characterized by cardiovascular involvement that has material basis in homozygous mutation in the atp6v1e1 gene on chromosome 22q11 .
any congenital anomaly of kidney and urinary tract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tbx18 gene .
almost complete absence of subcutaneous and / or visceral adipose tissue .
loss and redistribution of subcutaneous and / or visceral adipose tissue from specific regions of the body .
a morphologic variant of lung adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of mucin pools containing islands of well differentiated adenocarcinoma cells .
a condition or physical state produced by the ingestion ,  injection ,  inhalation of or exposure to a deleterious agent .
disorders caused by the intentional or unintentional ingestion or exposure to chemical substances such as pharmaceutical preparations ;  noxae ;  and pesticides .
an pneumonia caused by infection with klebsiella .
infections with bacteria of the genus klebsiella .
a variant of wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the presence of cystic spaces separated by septa .
an autoimmune form of glomerulonephritis  ( disease )  .
an autoimmune form of cardiomyopathy .
an autoimmune form of atherosclerosis .
an autoimmune form of vasculitis .
infection of the prostate gland caused by trichomonas vaginalis .
an cystitis caused by infection with trichomonas vaginalis .
an cervicitis  ( disease )  caused by infection with trichomonas vaginalis .
an vulvovaginitis caused by infection with trichomonas vaginalis .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with trichomonas tenax .
an autosomal recessive non - syndromic intellectual disability that has material basis in an autosomal recessive mutation of the rusc2 gene on chromosome 9p13 .
an autoimmune form of uveitis  ( disease )  .
an autoimmune form of optic neuritis .
inflammation of the body fundic mucosa of the stomach .
a autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease that has material basis in mutation in the pkd4 gene .
a rare autosomal dominant hereditary demyelinating motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by progressive distal muscle weakness and atrophy ,  distal sensory impairment ,  and decreased or absent reflexes in the affected limbs ,  with an onset in the first or second decade of life .
any polycystic kidney disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dzip1l gene .
any familial polycythemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the epo gene .
duane anomaly - myopathy - scoliosis syndrome is characterised by the association of bilateral duane anomaly type 3 ,  severe scoliosis of early onset ,  congenital myopathy with hypotonia without muscular weakness ,  delayed motor development ,  and short stature .
a rare hereditary ataxia characterized by delayed motor milestones in early infancy ,  hypotonia ,  ataxic gait ,  intention tremor ,  nystagmus ,  dysarthric speech ,  and variable learning difficulties .
an insidious ,  chronic and recurrent disorder ,  characterized by small and elevated oval corneal intraepithelial ,  whitish - gray opacities ,  extending to the entire anterior surface of the cornea of both eyes .
a distinct marginal thinning of the cornea which causes high degree of against - the - rule astigmatism
forms of hereditary angioedema that occur due to mutations in the gene for complement c1 inhibitor protein .
a rare systemic disease for which two subtypes exist ,  either related to the gene plod1 or fkbp22 ,  and for which the clinically overlapping characteristics include congenital muscle hypotonia ,  congenital or early - onset kyphoscoliosis  ( progressive or non - progressive )  ,  and generalized joint hypermobility with dislocations / subluxations  ( in particular of the shoulders ,  hips ,  and knees )  .
a rare ,  congenital ,  autosomal recessive axonal hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy disease characterized by axonal neuropathy ,  manifesting at birth or shortly thereafter with generalized muscular hypotonia ,  prominently distal muscular weakness ,  respiratory / swallowing difficulties and diffuse areflexia ,  associated with central nervous system involvement ,  which includes progressive microcephaly ,  seizures ,  and global developmental delay .
a rare ,  acquired motor neuron disease characterized by a slowly progressive ,  unilateral ,  ascending or descending hemplegia ,  associated to unilateral or asymmetrical pyramidal signs and no sensory loss .
an infrequent malignant neoplasm that occurs during childhood .
a malignant neoplasm that does not respond to treatment .
a malignant neoplasm that affects the kidney and occurs in childhood .
a benign or malignant  ( primary or metastatic )  neoplasm affecting the adrenal cortex .
a benign or malignant sex cord - stromal tumor arising from the ovary .
a benign mesenchymal tumor arising from skeletal or cardiac muscle .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the spleen .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the structures of the axilla .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the structures of the axilla .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the lymphatic vessels .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelium that resembles the epithelium of the endocervix or gastrointestinal tract .
a neoplasm arising from the epithelial cells .
a leydig cell tumor which does not recur or metastasize .
a benign ,  circumscribed fibroepithelial neoplasm arising from the breast and rarely the prostate gland .
a phyllodes tumor with sarcomatous stroma .
a germ cell tumor that arises from the lung .
a neoplasm that arises from the testis during childhood .
an ovarian or testicular stromal tumor characterized by the presence of lipid - rich neoplastic spindle cells .
a stromal tumor that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of cells that contain lipid and resemble theca cells .
a benign ,  borderline ,  or malignant epithelial tumor of the ovary characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that ,  in well differentiated tumors ,  resemble the epithelial cells of the fallopian tube and ,  in poorly differentiated tumors ,  show anaplastic features .
a cancer that involves the sebaceous gland .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that occurs in brain parenchymal tissue below the tentorium cerebelli .
a rare ,  usually benign fibroblastic neoplasm that arises from the peritoneum .
a cancer that involves the cauda equina .
a benign neoplasm that involves the cauda equina .
a metastasizing mesenchymal ,  non - meningothelial neoplasm that arises from the central nervous system .
a category of mesenchymal gynecologic neoplasms .
a malignant neoplasm that arises from the soft tissues of the mediastinum .
a soft tissue tumor of uncertain lineage characterized by the presence of neoplastic spindle - shaped to round cells in a fibromyxoid stroma .
a malignant neoplasm that arises from the vagina and is characterized by the presence of an epithelial and a mesenchymal component .
a injury that involves the vertebral column .
an elevated concentration of lipoproteins .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of carbohydrate metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of glycerol metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of porphyrin - containing compound metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of purine nucleobase metabolic process .
a disease that involves the intervertebral joint .
a group of genetic disorders that result from the inability to produce or use an enzyme required to oxidize fatty acids ,  resulting in an inability to generate energy from fatty acid sources .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of valine metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cellular amino acid metabolic process .
any disease caused by infection with organisms of the genus bordetella .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of pyrimidine nucleobase metabolic process .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of aspartate family amino acid metabolic process .
porphyria is a group of diseases in which substances called porphyrins build up ,  negatively affecting the skin or nervous system .
an instance of auditory system disease that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
any blepharo - cheilo - odontic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ctnnd1 gene .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of glutathione metabolic process .
autosomal recessive form of ocular albinism  ( disease )  .
autosomal dominant form of oculocutaneous albinism .
a malignant germ cell tumor that affects the peritoneum .
a benign ,  well circumscribed soft tissue neoplasm characterized by the presence of spindle shaped myofibroblasts and mast cells in a collagenous stroma .
a malignant neoplasm arising from the great vessels .
a carcinoma that is not confined to the epithelium ,  and has spread to the surrounding stroma .
a invasive carcinoma that involves the urothelium .
a malignant neoplasm derived from the transitional epithelium of the urinary tract  ( urinary bladder ,  ureter ,  urethra ,  or renal pelvis )  .
a severe form of scleritis with subtypes: necrotising zonal granulomatous inflammation ,  diffuse non - granulomatous chronic inflammation ,  mixed pattern of acute purulent inflammation mixed with granulomatous inflammation and sarcoidal pattern .
a benign congenital tumor that affects the orbit .
an outdated term to describe certain types of headache which were thought to be related to blood vessel swelling and hyperemia as cause of pain .
a form of polydipsia characterised by excessive fluid intake in the absence of physiological stimuli to drink .
a form of primary polydipsia caused by underlying psychiatric symptoms ,  including those caused by psychoses and rarely by affective disorders .
a form of primary polydipsia not caused by underlying psychiatric symptoms .
latent syphilis when infection was acquired more than twelve months previously .
an malignant otitis externa caused by infection with pseudomonas aeruginosa .
deficient blood distribution to the limbs caused by narrowing or obstruction of the lumen of the peripheral arteries .
a proliferation of the endometrial cells resulting in glandular enlargement and budding .
a life - threatening complication of carcinoid syndrome ,  and is generally found in people who already have carcinoid syndrome .
a form of lupus erythematosus  ( discoid or systemic )  with annular lesions of the skin like erythema multiforme associated with a characteristic pattern of immunological abnormalities .
an myocarditis caused by infection with corynebacterium diphtheriae .
a epilepsy that involves the primary motor cortex .
acute form of kidney papillary necrosis .
acute form of epiglottitis .
a condition where a toxic reaction in the optic nerve results in visual loss .
the spread of a malignant neoplasm to the colon .
an mesenteric lymphadenitis caused by infection with yersinia pseudotuberculosis .
a severe inflammatory disease that occurs sporadically and in outbreaks in russia and japan ,  caused by yersinia pseudotubuclosis infection ,  an organism that typically causes self - limiting gastroenteritis in europe .
a very serious type of heart attack during which one of the hearts major arteries  ( one of the arteries that supplies oxygen and nutrient - rich blood to the heart muscle )  is blocked .
a lepromatous form of leprosy that is characterized by numerous infiltrated skin lesions displaying high bacillary loads ,  impaired peripheral nerves ,  possible involvement of internal organs ,  and a th2 - mediated immune response .
a tuberculoid form of leprosy that is characterized by a small number of hypopigmented ,  well - bordered ,  anesthetic skin lesions with a low bacillary load ,  early peripheral nerve impairment ,  and a t - helper 1  ( th1 ) mediated immune response .
an pneumonia caused by infection with staphylococcus aureus .
systemic candidiasis occurs when candida yeast enters the bloodstream and may spread  ( becoming disseminated candidiasis )  to other organs ,  including the central nervous system ,  kidneys ,  liver ,  bones ,  muscles ,  joints ,  spleen ,  or eyes .
an endocarditis  ( disease )  caused by infection with fungi .
an inflammation of the endometrium and the myometrium .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with trichinella spiralis .
the inflammation of one or more joints caused by any infectious pathogen within the joint space .
stage 0 includes:  ( tis ,  n0 ,  m0 )  .
infections with true tapeworms of the helminth subclass cestoda .
a constitution or condition of the body which makes the tissues react in special ways to certain extrinsic stimuli and thus tends to make the individual more than usually susceptible to certain diseases .
a neoplastic process that affects the squamous epithelium of the cervix .
an extranodal non - hodgkin lymphoma that arises from the stomach with the bulk of the mass located in the stomach .
a melanoma that occurs during childhood .
a arteriosclerosis disorder that involves the retina .
poisoning caused by ingesting ergotized grain or by the misdirected or excessive use of ergot as a medicine .
poisoning caused by the ingestion of mycotoxins  ( toxins of fungal origin )  .
a teratoma that is found at the base of the coccyx .
a condition characterized by an abnormal spleen position due to loss ,  weakness ,  or malformation of one or more of the ligaments that hold the spleen in its normal position in the left upper abdomen .
a subtype of machado - joseph disease characterized by parkinsonian symptoms that respond particularly well to levodopa treatment .
a subtype of machado - joseph disease characterized by resemblance to hereditary spastic paraplegia ;  however ,  more research is needed to conclude the relationship between type v mjd and hereditary spastic paraplegia .
an instance of mitral valve disease that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a rheumatologic disorder that involves the mitral valve .
chromosome 12q duplication is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is an extra copy of genetic material on the long arm  ( q )  of chromosome 12 .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of glutamate decarboxylase activity .
an infectious embryofetopathy caused by infection with herpesviridae .
an instance of osteosclerosis that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
parainfluenza virus type 3 is one of a group of common viruses known as human parainfluenza viruses  ( hpiv )  that cause a variety of respiratory illnesses .
a condition due to deficiency in any member of the vitamin b complex .
a disorder arising from deficiency in the gata2 with a wide spectrum of phenotypes .
a group of disorders characterized by ectodermal - based malformations and neoplastic growths in the skin ,  nervous system ,  and other organs .
an instance of acanthosis nigricans  ( disease )  that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a jauncice caused by severe leptospirosis .
an instance of multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome - variable intellectual disability syndrome that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome without intellectual disability that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of lethal multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy  ( apmppe )  is an acquired ,  inflammatory eye condition affecting the retina ,  retinal pigment epithelium  ( pigmented layer of the retina )  ,  and choroid .
hypothalamic dysfunction refers to a condition in which the hypothalamus is not working properly .
a condition associated with reduced active import of iodide across the basolateral membrane of the follicular cells of the thyroid gland .
trichostasis spinulosa  ( ts )  is a condition where instead of one hair protruding from a hair follicle ,  a bundle or bush of hair come out of a single follicle .
a congenital disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of melanin pigment in the eyes ,  hair ,  or skin .
a disorder of the nervous system related to a vascular etiology .
a migraine disorder characterized by episodes that are preceded by focal neurological symptoms originating in the brainstem .
a common form of dementia caused by multiple cortical or subcortical cerebral infarctions .
poisoning caused by ingestion of seafood containing microgram levels of ciguatoxins .
the widespread involvement of the skin by a scaly ,  erythematous dermatitis occurring either as a secondary or reactive process to an underlying cutaneous disorder  ( e .g . ,  atopic dermatitis ,  psoriasis ,  etc .
painful sensations in the tongue ,  including a sensation of burning .
a form of arthritis that affects hemophiliacs ,  which is characterized by bleeding into the joint space .
a white patch or plaque on a mucous membrane that cannot be characterized clinically or pathologically as any other disease .
a disorder characterized by upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding caused by longitudinal mucosal tears in the gastroesophageal junction .
a benign ,  slow growing ,  and painless hamartomatous tumor occurring in tooth - bearing areas of the jaws .
recurrent seizures causally related to craniocerebral trauma .
necrotizing vasculitis of small and medium size vessels ,  developing as a complication in rheumatoid arthritis patients .
a syndrome that results from a group of infections that affect the fetus or the newborn .
trisomy 6 is a rare prenatal finding .
a condition caused by degeneration ,  atrophy ,  and destruction of the distal part of a nerve fiber's axon and myelin ,  when continuity with the neural cell nucleus has been severed due to injury .
obstruction of the blood flow in the superior vena cava caused by a malignant neoplasm ,  thrombosis ,  or aneurysm .
an abnormality characterized by macroscopic or microscopic outpouchings of gallbladder mucosa into the muscle of the gallbladder wall .
a type of localized scleroderma characterized by a long strip of indurated skin ,  which is typically found unilaterally on an arm or leg ,  and sometimes on the forehead or trunk .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with vibrio vulnificus .
a disorder in which an individual has an abnormally low noise tolerance ,  and increased sensitivity to sounds .
transient complete or partial monocular blindness due to retinal ischemia .
a skin condition caused by mycobacterium marinum ,  characterized by a skin lesion that presents roughly three weeks after exposure .
amyopathic dermatomyositis is a form of dermatomyositis characterized by the presence of typicalskin findingswithout muscle weakness .some of the skinchanges that suggest dermatomyositis include a pink rash on the face ,  neck ,  forearms and upper chest ;  gottron's papules and heliotrope eyelids .
a condition referring to irritation or compression of the proximal sciatic nerve ,  secondary to contraction of the piriformis muscle .
discharge of cerebrospinal fluid through a hole through the skull bone most commonly draining from the nose  ( cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea )  or the ear  ( cerebrospinal fluid otorrhea )  .
complication of cholelithiasis characterized by obstructive jaundice ;  abdominal pain ,  and fever .
a paralytic condition of the legs caused by ingestion of lathyrogens ,  especially beta - aminopropionitrile or beta - n - oxalyl amino - l - alanine ,  which are found in the seeds of plants of the genus lathyrus .
interposition of a portion of the colon  ( e .g . ,  sigmoid colon )  between the liver and the diaphragm .
progressive transformation of germinal centers is a condition in which a lymph node becomes very enlarged  ( lymphadenopathy )  .
a reactive ,  well - circumscribed vascular lesion .
an acute necrotic infection of the scrotum ;  penis ;  or perineum .
a rare type of gastritis characterized by gastric subepithelial collagen deposition and inflammatory infiltrates in the lamina propria .
a toxicity of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation that manifests as fever ,  rash and pulmonary deterioration which becomes evident at marrow engraftment .
a compression of iliac vein that results in a decreased flow in the vein and in the left lower extremity due to a vascular malformation .
a hormonal disorder that occurs when lack of corticotropin - releasing hormone  ( crh )  secretion from the hypothalamus or adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  secretion from the pituitary is responsible for hypofunction of the adrenal cortex .
sensorineural hearing loss which develops suddenly over a period of hours or a few days .
a group of chronic ,  inflammatory childhood diseases characterized by arthritis and enthesitis .
a viral ,  bacterial ,  fungal ,  or parasitic infectious process that affects the digestive system .
a chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 8 in somatic cells .
hypercalcemia generally develops as a late complication of malignancy ;  its appearance has grave prognostic significance .
harmful effects of non - experimental exposure to ionizing or non - ionizing radiation in vertebrates .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder which results from exposure to radiation .
absence of hydrochloric acid in the gastric juice .
a chronic eruption of fibrous papules that develop and fuse to form a thick sclerotic ,  hypertrophic band at a site of deep folliculitis ,  usually along the posterior hairline of the scalp .
a syndrome characterized by abnormal secretion of adrenocorticotrophic hormone in conjunction with neoplastic growth occurring anywhere in the body .
an episode of sudden and transient loss of consciousness sometimes associated with seizures .
an infectious process caused by adenovirus .
an inflammatory process affecting an artery .
acute and chronic  ( see also brain injuries ,  chronic )  injuries to the brain ,  including the cerebral hemispheres ,  cerebellum ,  and brain stem .
encephalopathy resulting from trauma .
a traumatic injury involving interruption of tissue cohesiveness that results from exposure to caustic chemicals ,  extreme heat ,  extreme cold or excessive radiation .
poisoning occurring after exposure to cadmium compounds or fumes .
cardiac manifestation of gastrointestinal carcinoid tumor that metastasizes to the liver .
a headache disorder that is characterized by periodic severe ,  unilateral orbital ,  supraorbital ,  and / or temporal pain ,  and is associated with ipsilateral cranial autonomic symptoms .
conjunctivitis resulting from viral infection .
any adverse condition in a patient occurring as the result of treatment by a physician ,  surgeon ,  or other health professional ,  especially infections acquired by a patient during the course of treatment .
an infection acquired in a hospital or other healthcare setting .
a medical condition characterized by major shock and renal failure after a crushing injury to skeletal muscle .
diarrhea occurring in infants from newborn to 24 - months old .
inflammation of the arterial intima .
inflammation of the small intestine .
fractures of the short ,  constricted portion of the thigh bone between the femur head and the trochanters .
a traumatic break in an area of bone that has been weakened by another disease process .
a lesion caused by type 1 or type 2 herpes simplex virus ,  involving the oralfacial region .
a type of chromosome rearrangement in which a segment has been turned through 180 degrees  ( inverted )  ,  and inserted back into its original location on the chromosome .
an atherosclerotic disorder of the peripheral vascular system affecting mostly males in their later decades .
a disorder caused by damage to the liver parenchyma due to alcohol consumption .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the structures of the mediastinum .
fracture in the proximal half of the shaft of the ulna ,  with dislocation of the head of the radius .
the development of potentially reversible physiologic derangement involving two or more organ systems not involved in the disorder that resulted in intensive care unit  ( icu )  admission ,  and arising in the wake of a potentially life - threatening physiologic insult .
dissolution of bone that particularly involves the removal or loss of calcium .
necrosis of bone following radiation injury .
ectopic pregnancy characterized by the implantation of the embryo in the peritoneal cavity or abdominal organs .
an abnormal pregnancy in which the conception is implanted in the fallopian tube .
bilateral hearing loss caused by progressive degeneration of cochlear structures and central auditory pathways ,  typically associated with the aging process .
purpura associated with a reduction in circulating blood platelets which can result from a variety of factors .
a cutaneous inflammatory reaction occurring as a result of exposure to biologically effective levels of ionizing radiation .
complete or severe weakness of the muscles of respiration .
progressive enlargement of the nose due to hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands of the tip of the nose and fibrosis .
a diffuse hardening of skin and subcutaneous adipose tissue ,  associated with minimal inflammation without fat necrosis ,  that typically affects critically ill preterm neonates during the first week of life .
inflammation of a serous membrane .
delayed - type hypersensitivity reaction to foreign proteins derived from an animal serum .
penetrating and non - penetrating injuries to the spinal cord resulting from traumatic external forces  ( e .g . ,  wounds ,  gunshot ;  whiplash injuries ;  etc .
tuberculosis of the vertebrae .
a lesion on the surface of the skin or a mucous surface ,  produced by the sloughing of inflammatory necrotic tissue .
a pathologic process in the larynx that affects the production of speech .
a condition of metabolic abnormalities that result from a spontaneous or therapy - related cytolysis of tumor cells .
a family of inherited disorders characterized by progressive loss of vision secondary to death of the retinal ganglion cell axons that comprise the optic nerve .
a poorly defined concept which at best is described as an extremely rare entity ,  possibly related to various subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia with abnormal eosinophils .
an infectious process affecting any part of the eye .
a bacterial infection related to a device used to replace a missing body part .
harm or hurt to the ankle or ankle joint usually inflicted by an external source .
a form of leishmaniasis ,  cutaneous caused by leishmania aethiopica in ethiopia and kenya ,  l . pifanoi in venezuela ,  l . braziliensis in south america ,  and l . mexicana in central america .
an inflammatory process affecting the lung parenchyma .
inflammation of the lung due to harmful effects of ionizing or non - ionizing radiation .
a chronic ,  autoimmune inflammatory condition of the mucous membranes in the oral cavity that affects approximately two percent of the population and is most often seen in middle aged women .
infections with bacteria of the genus burkholderia .
a neoplastic process that resembles a malignant lymphoma ,  but has a benign course .
a parasomnia characterized by paroxysmal episodes of choreoathetotic ,  ballistic ,  dystonic movements ,  and semipurposeful activity .
a syndrome associated with damage to the spinal cord above the mid thoracic level  ( see spinal cord injuries )  characterized by a marked increase in the sympathetic response to minor stimuli such as bladder or rectal distention .
compression of the ulnar nerve in the cubital tunnel ,  which is formed by the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle ,  humeral - ulnar aponeurosis ,  and medial ligaments of the elbow .
inflammation that includes the brain ,  spinal cord and surrounding tissues secondary to systemic lupus erythematosus  ( sle )  ;  it is associated with neurological and / or psychiatric features .
herpes zoster but without eruption of vesicles .
acute inflammation of the gallbladder .
hearing loss characterized by a combination of conductive and sensorineural hearing loss .
disorders or diseases associated with puerperium ,  the six - to - eight - week period immediately after parturition in humans .
a transient autoimmune inflammatory disorder of thyroid gland that occurs postpartum due to any partum problem .
an acute or subacute reversible condition characterized by headaches ,  mental status changes ,  visual disturbances ,  and seizures associated with imaging findings of posterior leukoencephalopathy .
a condition characterized by a reticular or fishnet pattern on the skin of lower extremities and other parts of the body .
a fungal infection by any of the candida species in a sterile body compartment .
a form of invasive candidiasis where species of candida are present in the blood .
a disorder of the heart and kidneys in which dysfunction of one of the organs induces dysfunction of the other organ .
opportunistic fungal infection by a member of alternaria genus .
a rare disorder affecting the digestive tract .
an abnormal pregnancy in which the conception is implanted on the ovary .
an abnormal pregnancy in which the conception is implanted and develops in the cornu of uterus .
a manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus with a widespread vesiculobullous eruption .
any disease affecting the vitreous body of the eye .
inflammatory intraocular reaction with clouding and cells in vitreous ;  often accompanies inflammation of ciliary body ,  iris ,  choroid ,  or retina .
a disorder in which an individual experiences recurrent ,  unexpected panic attacks and persistent concern about having additional panic attacks .
a disorder in which an individual experiences recurrent ,  unexpected panic attacks and persistent concern about having additional panic attacks .
t - b +  severe combined immunodeficiency  ( scid )  is a group of rare monogenic primary immunodeficiency disorders characterized by a lack of functional peripheral t lymphocytes with presence of b lymphocytes ,  resulting in early - onset severe respiratory viral ,  bacterial or fungal infections ,  diarrhea and failure to thrive .
shwachman - diamond syndrome - 2  ( sds2 )  is characterized by exocrine pancreatic dysfunction ,  hematopoietic abnormalities ,  short stature ,  and metaphyseal dysplasia  ( {1:stepensky et al . ,  2017} )  .nnfor a discussion of genetic heterogeneity of shwachman - diamond syndrome ,  see sds1  ( omim:260400 )  .
any specific granule deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cebpe gene .
specific granule deficiency - 2 is an autosomal recessive immunologic disorder characterized by recurrent infections due to defective neutrophil development .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of complement activation ,  lectin pathway .
the inheritance of only one mutated beta - globin allele  ( beta +  or beta0 )  .
chronic form of idiopathic urticaria .
acute form of idiopathic urticaria .
the duffy blood group system ,  which consists of 4 alleles ,  5 phenotypes ,  and 5 antigens ,  is important in clinical medicine because of transfusion incompatibilities and hemolytic disease of the newborn .
since the initial discovery of the human electroencephalogram  ( eeg )  by {1:berger  ( 1929 ) } ,  it has been speculated that neural oscillations play a broad role in nervous systems and form the basis for higher cognitive functions and consciousness .
more than 2 billion people have been infected with the hepatitis b virus  ( hbv ;  see omim:610424 )  ,  and more than 350 million of these people are chronic carriers .
perfect pitch ,  or absolute pitch  ( ap )  ,  is defined as the ability immediately and effortlessly to name a note or collection of notes when they are sounded .
voluntary nystagmus is a rapid to - and - fro synchronous movement of the eyes that is initiated and maintained by conscious effort .
the sense of bitter taste is mediated by a group of bitter taste receptor proteins that reside on the surface of taste cells within the taste buds of the tongue .
 < subhead >  genetic heterogeneity of variation in skin / hair / eye pigmentationnnmultiple genes influence normal human skin ,  hair ,  and / or eye pigmentation .
autosomal recessive inheritance of the lutheran null blood group phenotype is extremely rare ,  and has been reported in only 5 individuals .
two types of melanin ,  the red pheomelanin and the black eumelanin ,  are present in human skin .
an x - linked recessive inhibitor  ( xs )  of the lutheran blood group system  ( omim:111200 )  has been reported .nnfor a discussion of lutheran blood group phenotypes ,  see omim:247420 .
{2 , 3:berg and bearn  ( 1966 ,  1966 ) } discovered an x - linked serum protein type by means of heteroantiserum made specific by absorption .
human personality traits that can be reliably measured by rating scales show a considerable heritable component .
individuals with high altitude adaptation hemoglobin can survive in extremely hypoxic conditions without an increase in hematocrit or the development of erythrocytosis or polycythemia vera  ( summary by {3:lorenzo et al . ,  2014} )  .
in a review of various classification schemes for sleep disorders ,  {2:thorpy  ( 1990 ) } listed 'short sleeper' under the broad category of 'disorders of initiating and maintaining sleep'  ( dims )  ;  however ,  the short sleeper phenotype or trait is not considered a sleep disorder .
cis - 3 - hexen - 1 - ol  ( c3hex )  is present in a wide range of foods and beverages ,  including wine and spirits ,  olive oil ,  vegetables ,  fruit ,  and green tea .
the vel blood group system is defined by the presence of the vel antigen on red blood cells .
the gerbich blood group system contains 6 high - prevalence and 5 low - prevalence antigens that are expressed on glycophorin c  ( gpc )  ,  glycophorin d  ( gpd )  ,  or both gpc and gpd .
familial adenomatous polyposis - 4 is an autosomal recessive tumor predisposition syndrome characterized by the development of multiple colonic adenomas in adulthood ,  often with progression to colorectal cancer .
mild non - bh4 - deficient hyperphenylalaninemia  ( hpanbh4 )  is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by increased serum phenylalanine usually detected by newborn screening and associated with highly variable neurologic defects ,  including movement abnormalities and intellectual disability .
neurodevelopmental disorder with epilepsy ,  cataracts ,  feeding difficulties ,  and delayed brain myelination is a syndromic form of severe to profound intellectual disability with onset of delayed psychomotor development and seizures in infancy .
bbs21 is an autosomal recessive ciliopathy characterized by obesity ,  postaxial polydactyly ,  retinal degeneration ,  and mild cognitive impairment  ( {1:heon et al . ,  2016} ;  {2:khan et al . ,  2016} )  .nnfor a general phenotypic description and a discussion of genetic heterogeneity of bardet - biedl syndrome ,  see bbs1  ( omim:209900 )  .
btdd is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by brachycephaly ,  trichomegaly ,  and developmental delay .
craniosynostosis is a primary abnormality of skull growth involving premature fusion of the cranial sutures such that the growth velocity of the skull often cannot match that of the developing brain .
iddgip is an autosomal dominant syndromic neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by delayed psychomotor development ,  intellectual disability with speech delay ,  and behavioral abnormalities .
iddfsda is an autosomal recessive severe multisystem disorder characterized by poor overall growth ,  developmental delay ,  early - onset seizures ,  intellectual disability ,  and dysmorphic features .
intellectual developmental disorder with neuropsychiatric features is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by moderate intellectual disability ,  relatively mild seizures ,  and neuropsychiatric abnormalities ,  such as anxiety ,  obsessive - compulsive behavior ,  and autistic features .
rahman syndrome is characterized by mild to severe intellectual disability associated with variable somatic overgrowth manifest as increased birth length ,  height ,  weight ,  and / or head circumference .
al kaissi syndrome is an autosomal recessive developmental disorder characterized by growth retardation ,  spine malformation ,  particularly of the cervical spine ,  dysmorphic facial features ,  and delayed psychomotor development with moderate to severe intellectual disability  ( summary by {1:windpassinger et al . ,  2017} )  .
dedsm is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by global developmental delay ,  variable intellectual disability ,  and early - onset seizures with a myoclonic component .
pcld4 is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by adult - onset of liver cysts arising from the bile duct epithelium .
short - rib thoracic dysplasia  ( srtd )  with or without polydactyly refers to a group of autosomal recessive skeletal ciliopathies that are characterized by a constricted thoracic cage ,  short ribs ,  shortened tubular bones ,  and a 'trident' appearance of the acetabular roof .
osteogenesis imperfecta type xviii  ( oi18 )  is characterized by congenital bowing of the long bones ,  wormian bones ,  blue sclerae ,  vertebral collapse ,  and multiple fractures in the first years of life  ( {1:doyard et al . ,  2018} )  .
hyperekplexia - 4 is an autosomal recessive severe neurologic disorder apparent at birth .
an instance of transient congenital hypothyroidism that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a syndrome which occurs in individuals with a history of alcohol abuse .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant neoplasm that affects the connective and soft tissue .
a non - metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the soft tissue .
an invasive colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells with prominent intracytoplasmic mucin resulting in the displacement of the nuclei .
a malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of atypical mesenchymal - stromal cells .
an autoimmune form of primary ovarian failure .
any degenerative disorder affecting one or more vertebral discs of the lumbar spine .
any degenerative disorder affecting one or more vertebral discs of the thoracic spine .
any degenerative disorder affecting one or more vertebral discs of the cervical spine .
an infection that is caused by schistosoma japonicum .
an infection that is caused by schistosoma mansoni .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with echinococcus granulosus .
a disease or disorder that involves the erythrocyte .
an instance of hemoglobinopathy that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an disease or disorder caused by infection with schistosoma intercalatum .
rosai - dorfman disease is a rare benign non - langerhans cell histiocytosis characterized by the development of large painless histiocytic masses in the lymph nodes ,  predominantly of the cervical region .
isolated sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis is a rare rheumatologic disease characterized by predominantly bilateral ,  chronic ,  sterile inflammation and progressive sclerosis and hyperostosis of the sternocostoclavicular joint ,  with adjacent soft tissue ossification ,  in the absence of other joint involvement .
propylthiouracil embryofetopathy is a rare teratologic disease characterized by variable congenital anomalies resulting from maternal treatment and prenatal exposure to propylthiouracil .
16p12 .1p12 .3 triplication syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 16 characterized by global developmental delay ,  pre -  or post - natal growth delay and distinctive craniofacial features ,  including short palpebral fissures ,  epicanthal folds ,  bulbous nose ,  thin upper vermillion border ,  apparently low - set ears and large ear lobes .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the hypopharynx .
aquagenic syringeal acrokeratoderma is a rare condition affecting the palms of the hands .
a squamous cell carcinoma that involves the oropharynx .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the mucosal epithelial surface of the ethmoid ,  frontal ,  maxillary ,  or sphenoid sinus .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the lip or the oral cavity .
a severe ,  sometimes life - threatening ,  form of erythema multiforme .
a rare carcinoma with a poor prognosis ,  characterized by the presence of a mixture of exocrine and neuroendocrine malignant epithelial cells in both the pancreas and metastatic sites .
a squamous cell carcinoma arising from the salivary glands .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the major salivary glands .
a condition characterized by the congenital or acquired deficiency of prekallikrein .
traumatic injuries to the brain ,  cranial nerves ,  spinal cord ,  autonomic nervous system ,  or neuromuscular system ,  including iatrogenic injuries induced by surgical procedures .
a bacterial infection that is transmitted from animals to people .
an infection that is caused by anaplasma phagocytophilum ,  which is transmitted to humans by infected ticks ;  it is characterized by fever ,  headache ,  chills ,  and myalgia .
a disease of cattle caused by parasitization of the red blood cells by bacteria of the genus anaplasma .
x - linked congenital stationary night blindness  ( xlcsnb )  is a disorder of the retina .
chronic form of diarrheal disease .
a spinal stenosis that involves the lumbar region of vertebral column .
a diarrhea that results from increased motility in the bowel ;  significant increases in bowel motility can deliver excessively large volumes of stool to the colon .
a diarrhea that results from decreased motility in the bowel ;  the resultant bowel stasis encourages bacterial overgrowth and subsequent bile salt deconjugation .
nephrotic syndrome ,  occurring in the pediatric population ,  in which proteinuria does not normalize with administration of steroids ;  this condition is unresponsive to a minimum of four weeks administration of oral corticosteroids .
a rare pheochromocytoma of the adrenal gland that occurs during childhood .
a benign or malignant extra - adrenal parasympathetic paraganglioma arising from paraganglia in the vagus nerve .
premature ovarian failure - 10  ( pof10 )  represents a syndrome characterized by primary amenorrhea ,  hypergonadotropic ovarian insufficiency ,  and genomic instability in somatic cells .nnfor a general phenotypic description and discussion of genetic heterogeneity of premature ovarian failure ,  see pof1  ( omim:311360 )  .nnfor a discussion of genetic heterogeneity of age at natural menopause ,  see menoq1  ( omim:300488 )  .
a monoclonal b - cell neoplasm characterized by a nodular ,  or a nodular and diffuse proliferation of scattered large neoplastic cells known as popcorn or lymphocyte predominant cells  ( lp cells )  -  formerly called l&h cells for lymphocytic and / or histiocytic reed - sternberg cell variants .
nephrotic syndrome ,  occurring in the pediatric population ,  characterized by the normalization of proteinuria with the administration of corticosteroids .
an ulcerated lesion in the esophageal wall .
a well circumscribed ,  low grade neoplasm that arises from the breast .
a benign soft tissue neoplasm characterized by the presence of spindle and stellate cells ,  lobulated growth pattern ,  and myxoid stroma formation .
a melanoma of the skin characterized by a proliferation of atypical spindled melanocytes in the dermis ,  in a background of abundant collagen .
a low - grade malignant neoplasm that arises from the exocrine pancreas .
a rare ,  keratinizing or non - keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma arising from the mucosal epithelium of the nasal cavity or the paranasal sinuses .
an intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that arises from the intrahepatic large bile ducts .
an adenocarcinoma arising from the sweat glands .
a rare tumor containing unequivocal elements of both hepatocellular and cholangiocarcinoma that are intimately admixed .
a large ,  or giant ,  congenital melanocytic nevus  ( lcmn or gcmn )  is a pigmented skin lesion of more than 20 cm  -  or 40 cm -  respectively ,  projected adult diameter ,  composed of melanocytes ,  and presenting with an elevated risk of malignant transformation .
a benign ,  acquired or congenital ,  usually single skin lesion .
a benign ,  circumscribed proliferation of melanocytes in the skin .
a nevus characterized by the presence of large epithelioid melanocytes .
a nevus characterized by the presence of spindle - shaped melanocytes .
a benign melanocytic nevus characterized by the presence of desmoplastic stroma .
a spitz nevus associated with fibrous stroma formation .
an instance of dystonic disorder that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
a genetic disorder that usually presents in early childhood and is characterized by muscle contractions in a foot ,  leg ,  or arm that gradually spreads to other body regions .
torsion dystonia for which no underlying cause has been identified .
an instance of idiopathic torsion dystonia that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of idiopathic torsion dystonia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an instance of torsion dystonia that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an acute or chronic disorder ,  affecting the sympathetic or parasympathetic nervous system .
an uncommon hematologic malignancy occurring during childhood .
the most common subtype of the myelodysplastic syndromes affecting children .
a disorder affecting the smallest coronary arteries .
a potentially life - threatening hypersensitivity reaction to a pharmacologic substance that is characterized by rash ,  lymphadenopathy ,  fever ,  hematologic abnormalities and involvement of one or more internal organs .
a rare ,  immune - mediated disorder characterized by cerebellar degeneration due to the presence of an often undetected malignancy  ( usually carcinoma or lymphoma )  in an anatomic site other than the cerebellum .
a germ cell tumor that occurs during adulthood .
a non - invasive or invasive cystic epithelial neoplasm that affects almost exclusively females .
a neoplasm arising from hematopoietic cells found in the bone marrow ,  peripheral blood ,  lymph nodes and spleen  ( organs of the hematopoietic system )  .
a primary lymphoma that affects the tonsil and the bulk of the tumor is in this anatomic area .
a benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the tonsils .
a non - hodgkin lymphoma that arises from the central nervous system .
a term that refers to high grade b - cell lymphoma ,  not otherwise specified or high grade b - cell lymphoma with myc and bcl2 and / or bcl6 rearrangements .
a partial or complete replacement of the bone marrow stroma by fibrous tissue .
a benign neoplasm of the bladder that involves the transitional epithelium projecting above the surrounding epithelial surface and consisting of villous or arborescent outgrowths of fibrovascular stroma .
a squamous cell carcinoma which has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site .
a malignant neoplasm that has spread to the spinal cord from another anatomic site or system .
a malignant neoplasm that has spread to the eye from another anatomic site .
an aggressive ,  high grade adenocarcinoma that arises from the salivary glands .
a rhabdoid tumor which arises in the soft tissues .
the most frequent type of lymphoblastic lymphoma .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm that affects the renal pelvis .
an acute myeloid leukemia with mutation of the nucleophosmin gene .
an acute myeloid leukemia with mutations of the cebpa gene .
a carcinoma arising in the oral cavity .
carcinoma ,  predominantly squamous cell ,  arising from the epithelial cells of the oropharynx .
a malignant epithelial neoplasm that arises from the rectum and invades through the muscularis mucosa into the submucosa .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the paranasal sinus .
a mucoepidermoid carcinoma arising from the minor salivary glands in the oral cavity .
a disease or disorder that involves the abdominal segment of trunk .
a disease or disorder that involves the limb .
a disease or disorder that involves the eosinophil .
a benign mesenchymal neoplasm composed of adipose  ( fatty )  tissue .
a disease or disorder that involves the nasolacrimal duct .
a disease or disorder that involves the lymphoid system .
a disease or disorder that involves the face .
a disease or disorder that involves the hip .
a disease or disorder that involves the pes .
a disease or disorder that involves the manus .
a disease or disorder that involves the upper digestive tract .
a disease or disorder that involves the mouth mucosa .
a disease or disorder that involves the sympathetic nervous system .
a disease or disorder that involves the parasympathetic nervous system .
a disease or disorder that involves the cerebral cortex .
a disease or disorder that involves the midbrain .
a disease or disorder that involves the carpal region .
a disease or disorder that involves the scalp .
a disease or disorder that involves the cardiac ventricle .
a disease or disorder that involves the vertebra .
a disease or disorder that involves the scrotum .
a disease or disorder that involves the skeletal ligament .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cholesterol metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of glycoprotein metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of steroid metabolic process .
a disease or disorder that involves the extraembryonic membrane .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of tetrahydrobiopterin metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of carbohydrate transport .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cholesterol catabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cholesterol biosynthetic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of creatine biosynthetic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of glycine metabolic process .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of organic acid metabolic process .
an instance of adrenogenital syndrome that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
any disorder that features disrupted cell proliferation .
a disease or disorder that is induced by either chemical or radiation exposure .
a mycosis that arises from infection in an immunologically compromised host and is systemic .
a characteristic of an infectious disease in which the disease affects an immunologically compromised host .
a characteristic of an infectious disease in which the disease affects an immunologically normal host .
an opportunistic infection caused by a heterogeneous group of mitosporic fungi with clear  ( hyalo -  )  hyphae in the host .
a disease or disorder that involves the broad ligament of uterus .
a disease or disorder that involves the ligament .
a broad classification of dysgammaglobulinemias characterized by low or undetectable serum levels of immunoglobulin class g  ( igg )  .
an acquired metabolic disease that is has its basis in the disruption of thyroid hormone metabolic process .
a sarcoidosis that involves the nervous system .
a pregnancy induced hypertensive state that occurs after 20 weeks of gestation characterized by an increase in blood pressure ,  along with body swelling and proteinuria .
a cataract  ( disease )  that involves the lens nucleus .
a cataract  ( disease )  that involves the lens cortex .
a non - metastasizing bone - forming neoplasm .this category includes osteoma ,  osteoid osteoma ,  and osteoblastoma .
a benign ,  intermediate ,  or malignant bone - forming neoplasm .
a disorder either associated with an increased risk for malignant transformation  ( e .g . ,  intraepithelial neoplasia ,  leukoplakia ,  dysplastic nevus ,  myelodysplastic syndrome )  or that develops as a result of the presence of an existing malignant neoplasm  ( e .g . ,  paraneoplastic syndrome )  .
a carcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells with abundant clear cytoplasm which contains glycogen .
an atypical meningioma which may recur in approximately 29 - 40% of the cases .
a disorder characterized by confusion ;  inattentiveness ;  disorientation ;  illusions ;  hallucinations ;  agitation ;  and in some instances autonomic nervous system overactivity .
an adenoma or carcinoma of the pituitary gland that produces corticotropin .
a ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast characterized by the presence of a cribriform architectural pattern .
an aggressive carcinoma that arises from the major salivary glands .
an aggressive carcinoma that arises from the minor salivary glands .
a carcinoma that arises from the minor salivary glands .
a melanoma that arises from any part of the digestive system .
abnormal secretion of hormones in conjunction with neoplastic growth occurring anywhere in the body .
any blepharo - cheilo - odontic syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cdh1 gene .
any polycystic kidney disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the alg8 gene ,  that presents with or without kidney cysts .
any polycystic kidney disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dnajb11 gene .
small intestinal obstruction that results from the impaction of thick meconium in the distal small intestine .
renal damage and impaired renal function secondary to urinary tract obstruction .
a disease or disorder that involves the vermiform appendix .
a disease or disorder that involves the layer of synovial tissue .
a disease or disorder that involves the synovial bursa .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of sulfur compound metabolic process .
a benign granular cell tumor that involves the nerve .
a squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the lung .
breast carcinoma that does not respond to hormone therapy .
prostate carcinoma that does not respond to hormone therapy .
a rare carcinoma that arises from the intrahepatic bile ducts and is composed of malignant glandular cells and malignant squamous cells .
a neuroendocrine carcinoma that arises from the vulva .
an unusual rectal carcinoma characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous carcinomatous components .
an uncommon carcinoma that arises from the skin .
a carcinoma arising from the nasal cavity or paranasal sinuses .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the nasal cavity or paranasal sinuses .
bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia  ( boop )  is a lung disease that causes inflammation in the small air tubes  ( bronchioles )  and air sacs  ( alveoli )  .
a polypoid lesion composed of fibrous tissue and epithelium .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic polypoid lesion that arises from the anus .
a non - neoplastic nodular lesion that arises from the gingiva .
a superficial polypoid lesion that arises from the vagina .
a usually solitary polypoid lesion that arises from the cervix .
probably related to a recessive gene ,  this is fanconi syndrome ,  characterised by adult onset .
fanconi syndrome caused by exposure to noxious agents .
a hematologic disorder which does not display the morphologic and / or clinical characteristics of an overt malignancy .
a severe form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia characterized by very low or absent activity of an enzyme in the steroidogenic pathway typically presenting early in life ,  and requiring life - long cortisol replacement .
an x - linked syndromic intellectual disability that that includes subtypes of the heterogeneous ,  eponymously named lujan - fryns syndrome ,  x - linked ohdo syndrome ,  and optiz - kaveggia /  fg syndrome ,  which is caused by mutations in the gene med12 .
an ige antibody response to a mammalian oligosaccharide epitope ,  galactose - alpha - 1 , 3 - galactose  ( alpha - gal )  .
a benign inflammatory colitis caused by a non - ige - mediated immune reaction to ingested food proteins .
a clinically defined disease states with a largely unknown morphological background .
mast cell activation syndrome where kit - mutated and clonal mast cells are detected .
mast cell activation syndrome where an underlying inflammatory disease is present ,  often in the form of an ige - dependent allergy ,  but there are no kit - mutated mast cells .
an eosinophilic gastrointestinal disorder triggered by food that is non - ige - mediated .
disorders that are causes by overuse of tendons .
the chronic degeneration of a tendon without inflammation .
inflammation of the outer layer of the tendon  ( paratenon )  alone ,  whether or not the paratenon is lined by synovium .
paratenonitis associated with intratendinous degeneration .
an autoimmune disease characterized by sudden onset of photopsias and scotomata in patients with no family history of retinitis pigmentosa ,  followed by visual field and central vision loss .
a paroxysmal dyskinesia which manifest as dystonic movements brought on by sustained exercise ,  that is correlated with a deficiency in the gene echs1  ( caused by a missence mutation )  .
a childhood - onset epilepsy that is characterized by frequent seizures of multiple types ,  including nocturnal focal motor and fronto - parietal opercular seizures ,  and daytime focal motor seizures with negative myoclonus and atypical absence seizures .
a childhood - onset epilepsy that is characterized by the presence of visually - induced focal occipital lobe seizures .
an epilepsy sydrome that has an onset during the neonatal or infantile stage of life .
a neonatal / infantile epilepsy sndrome that is characterized by the onset of seizures that start in the in the neonate between day 4 and 7 of life and are often unilateral clonic events that recur and may alternate sides from seizure to seizure .
this syndrome is characterized by the onset of seizures between 3 and 20 months of age  ( peak 6 months )  .
this syndrome is characterized by onset of refractory focal seizures in the first year of life ,  with associated severe encephalopathy .
this group of epilepsies are typically is characterized by onset of seizures from day 1 of life to 5 years  ( peak 12 months )  .
these epilepsy syndromes are characterized by the presence of febrile seizures in an individual that may continue past the usual age where these are expected to resolve and / or be accompanied by afebrile seizures that may be generalized seizures  ( tonic - clonic ,  atonic ,  myoclonic ,  myoclonic - atonic or absence )  or focal seizures .
epilepsies that have a distinct immune - mediated etiology with evidence of central nervous system inflammation ,  that has been demonstrated to be associated with a substantially increased risk of developing epilepsy .
an immune epilepsy where the underlying cause is antibody mediated .
an epilepsy syndrome that has an onset during the adolescent or adult stage of life .
a genetic focal epilepsy ,  with focal sensory auditory seizures seen in family members .
this syndrome is identified in an individual who has seizures with temporal lobe features with a family history of similar seizures .
metabolic epilepsies are conceptualized as having a distinct metabolic abnormality that has been demonstrated to be associated with a substantially increased risk of developing epilepsy in appropriately designed studies .
cerebral folate deficiency is defined as a neurological syndrome associated with low csf 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate  ( 5mthf )  ,  the active folate metabolite ,  in the presence of normal folate metabolism outside the nervous system .
structural epilepsies are conceptualized as having a distinct structural brain abnormality that has been demonstrated to be associated with a substantially increased risk of epilepsy in appropriately designed studies .
an epilepsy syndrome that has an onset during variable ages and stages of life .
a disorder that involves more than one phenotype associated with the central nervous system ,  including but not limited to intellectual disability ,  autism ,  and seizures  ( epilepsy )  .
a monogenic disease that has material basis in mutation in the cdkl5 gene .
a monogenic disease that has material basis in mutation in the foxg1 gene .
mast cell activation syndrome where neither an allergy or other underlying disease is association ,  nor kit - mutated mast cells are detectable .
periodic spells of incoordination and imbalance ,  that is ,  episodes of ataxia typically lasting from 10 minutes to several hours or days ,  with improvement upon therapy with acetazolamide .
an acute hypersensitivity reaction that occurs from exposure to an allergen .
idiopathic anaphylaxis is a rare form of anaphylaxis for which triggers cannot be identified despite a detailed history and careful diagnostic assessment .
a rare disorder in which anaphylaxis occurs in association with physical activity .
a subset of exercise - induced anaphylaxis in which symptoms develop if exertion takes place within a few hours of eating a specific food .
elevated levels of plasma valine and leucine / isoleucine levels ,  associated with symptoms of headache and mild memory loss and attributed to biallelic variants in the bcat2 gene .
long - lasting ,  unexplained and asymptomatic blood hypereosinophilia .
a peripheral neuropathy that is characterized by variants in prps1 ,  which causes decreased or impaired function of the prps1 enzyme ,  and presents as a range of peripheral neuropathies that can include features of charcot - marie tooth syndrome ,  arts syndrome ,  or nonsyndromic hearing loss .
a complex neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by a range of developmental delays and epileptic encephalopathy phenotypes .
a rare soft tissue neoplasm that displays a perivascular pattern of spindle - to - ovoid cell proliferation .
tyrosine hydroxylase  ( th )  deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a spectrum of phenotypic features ,  based on severity and response to levodopa .
a tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency with onset typically between age three and 12 months .
a tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency in which individuals are extremely sensitive to levodopa therapy .
slc10a7 deficiency is characterized by compound heterozygous mutations in the slc10a7 gene ,  a gene of unknown function in humans .
a syndromic genetic deafness characterized by segregation of nonsyndromic hearing loss in females and hearing loss with infertility in males .
a disease or disorder that affects the neuroendocrine gland ,  any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and that release hormones in response to neural stimuli .
cardiocutaneous syndromes are those in which phenotypic manifestations occur in the heart ,  skin ,  and / or hair .
neonatal diabetes ,  congenital sensorineural hearing loss and congenital cataracts is characterized by the three primary phenotypes of neonatal diabetes ,  congenital sensorineural hearing loss and congenital cataracts .
infections caused by a strain of staphylococcus aureus that is non - susceptible to the action of the antibiotic ,  methicillin .
infections caused by viruses of the genus in the family caliciviridae ,  which is associated with epidemic gastroenteritis in humans .
a traumatic or pathologic injury to the jaw in which the continuity of the bone is broken .
a scoliosis with no known cause arising in a juvenile .
a severe medical condition which is estimated to appear in 9 - 18% of hypertensive patients ,  in which treatement with 3 or more antihypertensive drugs including diuretics are ineffective .
any early infantile epileptic encephalopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn1a gene .
cardioectodermal syndromes are those in which phenotypic manifestations occur in the heart ,  skin ,  and / or hair .
a change from the patient's baseline sleeping pattern ,  in the hours slept and / or an alteration / dysfunction in the stages of sleep .
any noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines in which the cause of the disease is a heterozygous mutation in the ptpn11 gene on chromosome 12q24 .
this is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in the runx1 gene and is characterized by mild to moderate thrombocytopenia ,  platelet functional and / or ultrastructural defects and a predisposition to hematologic malignancies ,  most often aml and mds ,  and less frequently t - all .
a musculoskeletal system disorder that covers a wide spectrum of phenotypes and is caused by pathogenic variants in the skeletal muscle  - actin gene  ( acta1 )  .
a cancer that involves the upper limb long bone .
a condition affecting an unborn or newly born individual ,  where the perinatal period is defined in humans as commencing at 22 completed weeks  ( 154 days )  of gestation and ending seven completed days after birth .
a degenerative disease of the brain that causes gradual loss of memory ,  judgment ,  and the ability to function socially .
a form of familial alzheimer disease ,  that begins after age 65 .
x - linked cytopenia characterized by anemia and / or thrombocytopenia .
an inheritable form of pseudoxanthoma elasticum  ( pxe )  ,  that causes calcium and other minerals to accumulate in the elastic fibers of the skin ,  eyes ,  and blood vessels ,  and less frequently in other areas such as the digestive tract .
familial cortical myoclonus caused by heterozygous mutation in the scn8a gene on chromosome 12q13 .
familial cortical myoclonus caused by heterozygous mutation in the nol3 gene on chromosome 16q22 .
a syndrome of cyclic vomiting associated with cannabis use .
autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder with onset in the first years of life following normal early development ,  with cyclic episodic deterioration in response to stress ,  such as infection or febrile illness .
a disease caused by infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 .
myopathy caused by pathogenic variants in selenon that is congenital or present early in childhood with neonatal hypotonia ,  delayed motor development ,  axial muscle weakness ,  scoliosis ,  and significant respiratory involvement .
any fetal akinesia deformation sequence in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the musk gene .
any fetal akinesia deformation sequence in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rapsn gene .
any fetal akinesia deformation sequence in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dok7 gene .
any fetal akinesia deformation sequence in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nup88 gene .
an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from fragility of cerebral vessels causing an increased risk of intracranial bleeding .
a form of age - related epileptic encephalopathy ,  characterized by the onset of seizures within the first 4 weeks of life that can be generalized or lateralized ,  independent of the sleep cycle ,  and that can result in frequent seizures per day ,  leading to psychomotor impairment and death .
non - neonatal early - onset epileptic encephalopathy is a form an of age - related epileptic encephalopathies ,  characterized by the onset of seizures later than the first 4 weeks of life but within the first three months .
tpm3 - related myopathy is a disorder of the musculoskeletal system that covers a wide spectrum of phenotypes and is caused by pathogenic variants in the skeletal muscle  - tropomyosin gene .
a disorder of a single peroxisomal protein ,  acyl - coa binding domain containing protein 5 ,  which forms a contact site between the peroxisomes and the er .
nonsyndromic deafness ,  keratitis - ichthyosis - deafness syndrome ,  and palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness have all been associated with autosomal dominant variants in gjb2 .
dry age related macular degeneration is characterized by the presence of age - related deposits called drusen and atrophy .
an acute onset of focal limb weakness that is associated mainly with gray matter abnormalities or csf pleocytosis ,  but which is without an apparent cause .
a viral respiratory infection that is caused by the mers coronavirus  ( mers - cov )  ,  which most often manifests with moderate to severe respiratory symptoms ,  including productive cough and shortness of breath ,  which can progress to pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome .
an infectious disease where a pathogen is carried and transmitted by another organism that acts as disease vector .
any congenital myopathy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the scn4a gene .
naa10 - related syndrome is an x - linked syndromic intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the naa10 gene .
a perceptual disorder caused by intoxication with hallucinogen drugs ,  especially lsd .
an inborn error of proline / orinthine metabolism that covers a wide spectrum of phenotypes and is caused by pathogenic variants in the aldehyde dehydrogenase 18 family member a1  ( aldh18a1 )  gene .
the simultaneous infection of a host by multiple pathogen species .
a cystic malformation that is characterized by extraparenchymal ,  nonneoplastic accumulations of fluid with density similar to that of cerebrospinal fluid .
a very severe form of acute pulmonary failure secondary to capillary permeability impairment .
acute respiratory distress syndromet that occurs in pediatric patients and includes findings of new infiltrates  ( unilateral or bilateral )  consistent with acute parenchymal disease ,  edema not fully explained by fluid overload or cardiac failure ,  and may present as new acute lung disease in setting of chronic lung disease and / or heart disease ,  and perinatal lung disease is excluded .
an adenosquamous carcinoma that arises from the intrahepatic bile ducts .
a type of mitochondrial disease .
isolated complex i deficiency is a rare inborn error of metabolism due to mutations in mitochondrial genes encoding subunits or assembly factors of the human mitochondrial complex i  ( nadh: ubiquinone oxidoreductase )  and is characterized by a wide range of manifestations including marked and often fatal lactic acidosis ,  cardiomyopathy ,  leukoencephalopathy ,  pure myopathy and hepatopathy with tubulopathy .
dravet syndrome is a channelopathy with epilepsy of with onset during the first year of life ,  typically 4 - 5 months ,  characterized by status epilepticus and a variety of drug - resistant seizures often induced by fever ,  presenting in previously healthy children ,  and which frequently leads to cognitive and motor impairment .
obsolete any fanconi anemia in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the fancm gene .
accelerated aging syndromes often caused by inheritable gene mutations resulting in decreased telomere lengths .
a mitochondrial myopathy caused by defects in the micos subunit gene apoo  ( mic26 )  .
a covid - 19 infection where individuals test positive for sars - cov - 2 but have no symptoms across the entire course of the disease .
a covid - 19 infection that presents with various signs and symptoms  ( e .g . ,  fever ,  cough ,  sore throat ,  malaise ,  headache ,  muscle pain )  without shortness of breath ,  dyspnea ,  or abnormal imaging .
a covid - 19 infection where individuals who have evidence of lower respiratory disease by clinical assessment or imaging and a saturation of oxygen  ( spo2 )   > 93% on room air at sea level .
a covid - 19 infection where individuals have respiratory frequency  > 30 breaths per minute ,  spo2 93% on room air at sea level ,  ratio of arterial partial pressure of oxygen to fraction of inspired oxygen  ( pao2 / fio2 )   < 300 ,  or lung infiltrates  > 50% .
a covid - 19 infection that involves respiratory failure ,  septic shock ,  and / or multiple organ dysfunction .
a tubulinopathy with material basis in tubb2b that is characterized by variations in r390q ,  quadrupedal locomotion ,  cerebellar hypoplasia and does not have basal ganglia malformations .
a covid - 19 infection where individuals test positive for sars - cov - 2 but have no symptoms when they first test positive ,  but develop symptoms later on .
variants in the gene atp6ap2 have been associated with a multitude of diseases ,  including x - linked syndromic id hedera type ,  x - linked parkinsonism - spasticity syndrome ,  and congenital disorder of glycosylation type 2r .
a syndromic intellectual disability disorder that is characterized by significant neurodevelopmental disabilities with limited to absent speech ,  behavioral issues ,  and craniofacial anomalies .
a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that is transmitted via x - linked inheritance ,  and is characterized by intellectual disability ,  autism and epilepsy .
an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation ( s )  in the ctns gene ,  encoding cystinosin .
any dyskeratosis congenita in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dkc1 gene .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by onset of megaloblastic anemia associated with decreased serum vitamin b12  ( cobalamin ,  cbl )  in infancy or early childhood .
an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by onset of megaloblastic anemia associated with decreased serum vitamin b12  ( cobalamin ,  cbl )  in infancy or early childhood .
an acute disease characterized by severe ketoacidosis in the absence of diabetes mellitus and occuring in individuals with a history of prolonged excessive alcohol consumption .
renal tubular acidosis  ( rta )  that is caused by a generalized transport abnormality of the distal tubule .
a inflammatory syndrome in children infected by the sars - cov - 2 with similarities to kawasaki disease .
permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus  ( pndm )  is a monogenic form of neonatal diabetes  ( ndm )  characterized by persistent hyperglycemia within the first 12 months of life in general ,  requiring continuous insulin treatment .
a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe hyperglycemia which requires insulin treatment soon after birth .
a disorder of the musculoskeletal system caused by pathogenic variants in the ttn gene encoding the titin protein expressed in striated muscle .
a genetic disorder associated with variation ( s )  in the ap4 genes: ap4b1 ,  ap4e1 ,  ap4m1 ,  and ap4s1 .
a disease characterized by a deficiency in gtp cyclohydrolase i ,  which leads to a consequent reduction in bh4 and reduces the activity of three bh4 - cofactor dependent enzymes  -  phenylalanine hydroxylase ,  tyrosine hydroxylase ,  and tryptophan hydroxylase .
an inflammatory condition that arises after initiating antiretroviral therapy  ( art )  therapy in hiv - infected patients that results from restored immunity to specific infectious or non - infectious antigens .
a hypoalphalipoproteinemia that is has its basis in the disruption of apoa - i and apoc - iii .
a rare lipoprotein metabolism disorder characterized biochemically by complete absence of apolipoprotein ai and extremely low plasma high density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  cholesterol ,  and clinically by corneal opacities and xanthomas complicated with premature coronary heart disease  ( chd )  .
a liver disease characterized by the liver losing or has lost all of its function .
liver failure that develops slowly and gradually for some time ,  possibly for years ,  often as the result of cirrhosis ,  or malnutrition .
a severe early presentation of osteoporosis in which young women experience low trauma or spontaneous fractures ,  most commonly vertebral fractures ,  during late pregnancy or lactation .
a congenital myopathy of the musculoskeletal system that covers a wide spectrum of phenotypes and is caused by pathogenic variants in the skeletal muscle beta - tropomyosin gene .
a disease caused by infection with parainfluenza virus .
a disease caused by infection with parainfluenza virus type 1 .
a disease caused by infection with parainfluenza virus type 2 .
a disease caused by infection with parainfluenza virus type 4 .
an x - linked multiple congenital anomaly disorder with variable severity .
an extremely rare adenosarcoma that arises from the uterine ligament .
a congenital disorder of glycosylation with a ssr3 deficiency that affects the brain ,  lungs and gastrointestinal system ,  and presents with clinical phenotypes such as seizures ,  intellectual disability ,  developmental delay ,  microcephaly and abnormal brain structure .
the presence of excessive bacteria in the small intestine that can result from result from failure of the gastric acid barrier ,  failure of small intestinal motility ,  anatomic alterations ,  or impairment of systemic and local immunity .
the ingestion of excessive calcium supplementation or calcium containing antacids ,  and alkali resulting in a triad of hypercalcemia ,  metabolic alkalosis ,  and renal insufficiency .
a condition that results from excessive fluoride ingestion leading to fluoride accumulation in the bone progressively over many years .
phrynoderma is a form of follicular hyperkeratosis seen in young children and adolescents due to nutritional deficiencies .
potentially fatal shifts in fluids and electrolytes that may occur in malnourished patients receiving artificial refeeding  ( whether enterally or parenterally )  .
a cadasil characterized by migraine ,  strokes ,  and white matter lesions that has material basis in heterozygous mutation in the notch3 gene on chromosome 19p13 .
a type of familial lipid metabolism disorder characterized by a variable pattern of elevated plasma cholesterol and / or triglycerides .
a rare malignant tumor of soft tissue characterized by a bimorphic pattern composed of undifferentiated small round cells and islands of well differentiated hyaline cartilage .
a chondrosarcoma that is located in exclusively soft tissue .
a extraosseous chondrosarcoma that occurs in an adult .
a condition in which there is an abnormally increased distance between two organs or bodily parts ;  most often ,  this term is referring to an increased distance between the orbits  ( orbital hypertelorism )  .
apparent optic disc swelling in the absence of increased intracranial pressure .
an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder characterized by juvenile onset ,  distal motor weakness without sensory impairment ,  and anterior horn cell degeneration .
a rare ,  genetic ,  multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome characterized by craniofacial dysmorphism  ( midface hypoplasia ,  depressed nasal bridge ,  small nose with upturned tip ,  cleft palate ,  pierre robin sequence )  ,  bilateral ,  pronounced sensorineural hearing loss ,  and skeletal / joint anomalies  ( including spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  arthralgia / arthropathy )  ,  in the absence of ocular abnormalities .
an extremely rare multiple congenital anomalies / dysmorphic syndrome ,  described in three boys from one family ,  and characterized by intellectual disability ,  hypertelorism ,  broad and flat nasal bridge ,  maxillary hypoplasia ,  mandibular prognathism ,  bifid uvula or partial cleft palate ,  multiple dental cysts ,  schmorl nodes ,  fused cervical spinous processes ,  pectus excavatum ,  and penoscrotal hypospadias .
fukuyama type muscular dystrophy  ( fcmd )  is a congenital progressive muscular dystrophy characterized by brain malformation  ( cobblestone lissencephaly )  ,  dystrophic changes in skeletal muscle ,  severe intellectual deficit ,  epilepsy and motor impairment .
this syndrome is characterized by slowly progressive spastic paraplegia ,  skeletal anomalies of the hands and feet with brachydactyly type e ,  cone - shaped epiphyses ,  abnormal metaphyseal phalangeal pattern profile ,  sternal anomaly  ( pectus carinatum or excavatum )  ,  dysarthria ,  and mild intellectual deficit .
crisponi syndrome  ( cs )  is a severe disorder characterized by muscular contractions at birth ,  intermittent hyperthermia ,  facial abnormalities and camptodactyly .
a rare childhood cancer predisposition syndrome caused by biallelic inheritance of mutations in mlh1 ,  msh2 ,  msh6 ,  or pms2 genes .
hsd10 disease is a rare ,  life - threatening neurometabolic disease characterized by a progressive neurodegenerative course ,  epilepsy ,  retinopathy and progressive cardiomyopathy .
any immunodeficiency disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ikbkg gene .
x - linked cleft palate and ankyloglossia is a rare ,  genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome characterized by the association of complete ,  partial or submucous cleft palate and ankyloglossia .
an instance of gynecomastia that is caused by an inherited modification of the individual's genome .
properdin deficiency is a rare ,  hereditary ,  primary immunodeficiency due to a complement cascade protein anomaly characterized by significantly increased susceptibility to neisseria species infections .
carasil is a hereditary cerebral small vessel disease characterized by early - onset gait disturbances ,  premature scalp alopecia ,  ischemic stroke ,  acute mid to lower back pain and progressive cognitive disturbances leading to severe dementia .
any combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the slc25a26 gene .
any cold - induced sweating syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the klhl7 gene .
this syndrome is characterised by the association of severe congenital colitis with sensorineural deafness .
a disease in which punctate palmoplantar keratoderma is a major feature . .
a disease in which cushing syndrome is a major feature .
catecholamine - producing tumors may arise in the adrenal medulla  ( pheochromocytomas )  or in extraadrenal chromaffin cells  ( secreting paragangliomas )  .
ehlers - danlos syndrome  ( eds )  with periventricular heterotopia is a newly described variant of eds .
a narrowing of renal arteries that is present since birth .
a ichthyosis associated with ocular features that is part of a larger syndrome .
an acute inflammation of the tonsils caused by viruses or bacteria .
a neoplastic proliferation of basal cells in the epidermis  ( part of the skin )  or other anatomic sites  ( most frequently the salivary glands )  .
a neoplasm composed of basal cells that metastasizes to other anatomic sites .
a carcinoma involving the basal cells .
a neoplasm composed of basal cells that remains localized and does not metastasize to other anatomic sites .
a sex cord - stromal tumor that arises from the ovary and is composed entirely of ,  or in various combinations of ,  sertoli cells ,  leydig cells ,  and fibroblast - like cells .
a sex cord - stromal tumor that arises from the testis and is characterized by the presence of neoplastic cells with features of sertoli cells .
a sertoli cell tumor of the testis or the ovary which remains localized and does not metastasize to another anatomic site .
a non - metastasizing sex cord - stromal tumor that arises from the testis .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of cytokine activity .
a miliaria that is characterized by pustules resulting from inflammation and bacterial infection .
a miliaria that is characterized by ductal occlusion of the papillary dermis causing the gland's secretions to leak between the superficial and deep layers of the skin resulting in a rapidly - spreading flesh - colored rash .
a miliaria that is characterized by clear ,  superficial ,  noninflammed ,  subcorneal vesicles that easily rupture when rubbed and is located in the stratum corneum .
a disorder characterized by the progressive loss of function and / or structure of the affected tissues .
a degenerative disorder that involves the lacrimal gland .
a reproductive organ benign neoplasm that arises in the ovary or testis and that is composed of granulosa cells ,  leydig cells ,  sertoli cells ,  and / or fibroblasts .
a rare autosomal dominant hereditary demyelinating motor and sensory neuropathy characterized by progressive distal muscle weakness and atrophy ,  distal sensory impairment ,  and decreased or absent reflexes in the affected limbs ,  with an onset in the first or second decade of life .
an autosomal recessive multisystem disorder characterized by neurologic ,  gastrointestinal ,  and secretory dysfunction .
a rare intestinal disease characterized by congenital partial or complete lack of the collagen mesh network in the intestinal wall ,  resulting in hypoperistalsis or aperistalsis .
a musculoskeletal system disorder that covers a wide spectrum of phenotypes and is caused by pathogenic variants in the skeletal muscle  - actin gene  ( acta1 )  .
an x - linked intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the sox3 gene ,  with variable phenotypes including growth hormone deficiency due to hypopituitarism .
any immune dysregulation disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tnfaip3 gene .
a qualitative or quantitative defect of collagen 6 disorder that covers a wide spectrum of musculoskeletal phenotypes caused by dominant and recessive mutations in the three major collagen vi genes: col6a1 ,  col6a2 ,  and col6a3 .
a disorder in which a series of complex behaviors are initiated during slow - wave  ( non - rem )  sleep and result in walking during sleep .
any muscular dystrophy in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lama2 gene .
a peroxisoome biogenesis disorder characterised by sensorineural hearing loss ,  enamel hypoplasia of the secondary dentition ,  nail abnormalities and occasional or late - onset retinal pigmentation abnormalities ,  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in peroxisomal biogenesis factor 1  ( pex1 )  or peroxisomal biogenesis factor 6  ( pex6 )  genes .
a susceptibility or predisposition to psoriatic arthritis ,  in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the lta gene .
an inherited susceptibility or predisposition to developing psoriatic arthritis .
a chronic disease triggered by acute covid - 19 infection that is characterized by persistent symptoms following the acute phase of the sars - cov - 2 infection ,  which may include fatigue ,  coughing ,  dyspnea ,  clouding of mentation ,  sleep disturbances ,  exercise intolerance and autonomic symptoms including tachycardia upon mild exercise or standing ,  night sweats ,  temperature dysregulation ,  gastroparesis ,  constipation or loose stools ,  and peripheral vasoconstriction .
a rare ,  genetic ,  cardiac rhythm disease characterized by ventricular fibrillation in the absence of any structural or functional heart disease ,  or known repolarization abnormalities .
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
b is a process_profile =def .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
a pyridinium ion obtained by protonation of the ring nitrogen of pyridoxal .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mycoplasma genitalium .
a dna polymerase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a dna - directed dna polymerase  ( ec 2 .7 .7 .7 )  .
a class of carbonyl compound encompassing dicarboxylic acids and any derivatives obtained by substitution of either one or both of the carboxy hydrogens .
a primary amine that is isopropylamine in which a hydrogen attached to one of the methyl groups has been replaced by a phenyl group .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
a diol in which the two hydroxy groups are on different carbon atoms ,  usually but not necessarily adjacent .
an organic group derived from any 3 - oxo - delta ( 4 )  - steroid .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  undergoes conversion by biochemical  ( enzymatic )  ,  chemical  ( possibly following an enzymatic step )  ,  or physical  ( e .g .
a benzoate that is the conjugate base of acetylsalicylic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of any secondary amino compound ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an atom of an element that exhibits properties that are between those of metals and nonmetals ,  or that has a mixture of them .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino group of any tertiary amino compound .
any compound that can disrupt the functions of the endocrine  ( hormone )  system
a bronsted acid derived from one or more inorganic compounds .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
an alpha - oxyketone that has a hydroxy group as the alpha - oxy moiety .
a carboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any retinoid carboxy group .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a  - ch2  ( methylene )  group .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a carbon bearing two organyl groups .
an acetate ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of acetic acid with the hydroxy group of any phenol .
an aluminosilicate mineral with approximate chemical composition h2al2si2o8 .h2o .
an aluminosilicate soft white mineral named after the hill in china  ( kao - ling )  from which it was mined for centuries .
a primary ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the amino group of l - tyrosinal .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of digoxin resulting from the deprotonation of furanone moiety ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any agent that induces nausea and vomiting .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained from the transfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group of d - dopa .
a molecular entity that can transfer an electron to another molecular entity .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
a member of the class of benzoic acids that is salicylic acid in which the hydrogen that is attached to the phenolic hydroxy group has been replaced by an acetoxy group .
a simple monocarboxylic acid containing two carbons .
an oxygen hydride consisting of an oxygen atom that is covalently bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
any alpha - amino acid having l - configuration at the alpha - carbon .
a primary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of formic acid .
an optically active form of dopa having l - configuration .
a peptide containing ten or more amino acid residues .
an organic heterobicyclic compound that consists of 2 - oxohexahydro - 1h - thieno [ 3 , 4 - d ] imidazole having a valeric acid substituent attached to the tetrahydrothiophene ring .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having d - configuration .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having l - configuration .
a monoatomic monoanion resulting from the addition of an electron to any halogen atom .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
the simplest member of the class of  benzoates that is the conjugate base of benzoic acid ,  comprising a benzoic acid core with a proton missing to give a charge of  - 1 .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
a monocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens has been replaced by a halogen atom .
a barbiturate ,  the structure of which is that of perhydropyrimidine substituted at c - 2 ,   - 4 and  - 6 by oxo groups .
a sphing - 4 - enine in which the double bond is trans .
a one - carbon compound with formula co2 in which the carbon is attached to each oxygen atom by a double bond .
a naturally occurring polypeptide synthesized at the ribosome .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
a penicillanic acid compound having a  ( 6r )  - amino substituent .
a hydroxymethylpyridine with hydroxymethyl groups at positions 4 and 5 ,  a hydroxy group at position 3 and a methyl group at position 2 .
a six - carbon aromatic annulene in which each carbon atom donates one of its two 2p electrons into a delocalised pi system .
a 21 - hydroxy steroid that consists of pregn - 4 - ene substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 11 and 21 and oxo groups at positions 3 and 20 .
an aldehyde resulting from the formal oxidation of methanol .
a glycosylsphingoid consisting of sphingosine having a beta - d - galactosyl residue attached at the 1 - position .
a monohydroxybenzoic acid that is benzoic acid with a hydroxy group at the ortho position .
the d - enantiomer of phenylalanine .
d - ribitol in which the hydroxy group at position 5 is substituted by a 7 , 8 - dimethyl - 2 , 4 - dioxo - 3 , 4 - dihydrobenzo [ g ] pteridin - 10 ( 2h )  - yl moiety .
a compound in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: r2c=o  ( neither r may be h )  .
a one - carbon compound in which the carbon is joined only to a single oxygen .
the conjugate base of propionic acid ;  a key precursor in lipid biosynthesis .
the l - enantiomer of phenylalanine .
a pyridinecarbaldehyde that is pyridine - 4 - carbaldehyde bearing methyl ,  hydroxy and hydroxymethyl substituents at positions 2 ,  3 and 5 respectively .
any member of the group of substituted penams containing two methyl substituents at position 2 ,  a carboxylate substituent at position 3 and a carboxamido group at position 6 .
a sulfur oxoanion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen sulfite  ( h2so3 )  .
a compound rc ( =o ) h ,  in which a carbonyl group is bonded to one hydrogen atom and to one r group .
a pseudohalide anion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen cyanide .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
the simplest member of the class toluenes consisting of a benzene core which bears a single methyl substituent .
an amino phenol  ( one of the three possible isomers )  which has the single amino substituent located para to the phenolic  - oh group .
a compound showing blue fluorescence ,  formed by a photolysis of riboflavin in acid or neutral solution .
the primary alcohol that is the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
a compound containing at least one carbon - halogen bond  ( where x is a halogen atom )  .
a mononuclear parent hydride consisting of covalently bonded hydrogen and chlorine atoms .
a molecular entity that can transfer  ( "donate" )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
an optically active form of tyrosine having l - configuration .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
an elemental molecule consisting of two trivalently - bonded nitrogen atoms .
an azacycloalkane that is cyclohexane in which one of the carbons is replaced by a nitrogen .
'lipids' is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
an alpha - amino acid that is phenylalanine bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 4 on the phenyl ring .
an alpha - amino acid that is glutaric acid bearing a single amino substituent at position 2 .
an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26 .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of hydrogenphosphate .
the monophosphate ester obtained by condensation of phosphoric acid with the primary hydroxy group of pyridoxal .
a one - carbon compound consisting of a methine group triple bonded to a nitrogen atom
compounds with the general formula rnhc ( =o ) ch3 .
an organic group formed by removing one or more hydroxy groups from an oxoacid that has the general structure rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  .
any of a group of related and highly toxic secondary metabolites  ( mycotoxins )  whose main structural feature is a fused coumarin - bis ( dihydrofuran )  ring system and which are produced by strains of the moulds aspergillus flavus or a . parasiticus ,  together with further metabolites of these mycotoxins
any of the naturally occurring ,  basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom ,  but also found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  and animals .
highly reactive chemical that introduces alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevents their proper functioning .
an alcohol containing an amino functional group in addition to the alcohol - defining hydroxy group .
any aldehyde which contains an amino group .
an amino alcohol having two hydroxy functional groups .
any  aromatic amine that is benzene carrying at least one amino substituent and its substituted derivatives .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
members of the class of pyrimidones consisting of pyrimidine - 2 , 4 , 6 ( 1h , 3h , 5h )  - trione  ( barbituric acid )  and its derivatives .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
any benzenoid aromatic compound consisting of the benzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any benzoic acid .
any aromatic carboxylic acid that consists of benzene in which at least a single hydrogen has been substituted by a carboxy group .
the univalent carboacyl group formed by loss of  - oh from the carboxy group of carbamic acid .
an ec 4 .2 .1 .*  ( hydro - lyases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of carbonic anhydrase  ( ec 4 .2 .1 .1 )  .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of chlorine .
a haloacetate ( 1 -  )  resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of chloroacetic acid .
any organochlorine compound containing a benzene ring which is substituted by one or more chlorines .
a low - molecular - weight ,  non - protein organic compound participating in enzymatic reactions as dissociable acceptor or donor of chemical groups or electrons .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
an  alkaloid that is a carbotricyclic compound comprising 5 , 6 , 7 , 9 - tetrahydrobenzo [ a ] heptalene having four methoxy substituents at the 1 -  ,  2 -  ,  3 -  and 10 - positions as well as an oxo group at the 9 - position and an acetamido group at the 7 - position .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
any alicyclic ketone based on a cyclohexane skeleton and its substituted derivatives thereof .
a compound that contains two hydroxy groups ,  generally assumed to be ,  but not necessarily ,  alcoholic .
any terpenoid derived from a diterpene .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
any diol that is ethane or substituted ethane carrying two hydroxy groups .
compounds containing at least one furan ring .
glucocorticoids are a class of steroid hormones that regulate a variety of physiological processes ,  in particular control of the concentration of glucose in blood .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - glutamic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( glutamine ,  proline and arginine )  .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glutamate -  - ammonia ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .2 )  .
a glycosyl compound resulting from the attachment of a glycosyl group to a non - acyl group ro -  ,  rs -  ,  rse -  ,  etc .
a glycosphingolipid is a glycolipid that is a carbohydrate - containing derivative of a sphingoid or ceramide .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
a substance used to destroy plant pests .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
originally referring to an endogenous compound that is formed in specialized organ or group of cells and carried to another organ or group of cells ,  in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory function ,  the term is now commonly used to include non - endogenous ,  semi - synthetic and fully synthetic analogues of such compounds .
a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
a non - proteinogenic alpha - amino acid bearing one or more hydroxy groups at unspecified positions .
any carboxylic acid with at least one hydroxy group .
any benzoate derivative carrying a single carboxylate group and at least one hydroxy substituent .
any benzoic acid carrying one or more phenolic hydroxy groups on the benzene ring .
any member of the class of pyridines with at least one hydroxy substituent .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
any lipid formally derived from isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  ,  the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule .
cyclic amides of amino carboxylic acids ,  having a 1 - azacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or analogues having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
any cyclic carboxylic ester containing a 1 - oxacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or an analogue having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
any carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxy group with methanol .
any member of the class of pyridines that carries at least one methyl substituent .
a molecule all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
an oxoacid containing a single carboxy group .
a hydroxybenzoate carrying a single hydroxy substituent at unspecified position .
any hydroxybenzoic acid having a single phenolic hydroxy substituent on the benzene ring .
an agent that increases the frequency of mutations above the normal background level ,  usually by interacting directly with dna and causing it damage ,  including base substitution .
poisonous substance produced by fungi .
an endogenous compound that is used to transmit information across the synapse between a neuron and another cell .
any glycosphingolipid containing unsubstituted glycosyl moieties .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
any organic ion with a net positive charge .
an organooxygen compound with formula ror ,  where r is not hydrogen .
an oxide in which the oxygen atom is bonded to a carbon atom .
an  alcohol derived from an aliphatic compound .
an organophosphorus compound is formally a compound containing at least one carbon - phosphorus bond ,  but the term is often extended to include esters and thioesters .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill pests .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of alanine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of phenylalanine  by a heteroatom .
salts and esters of phosphoric and oligophosphoric acids and their chalcogen analogues .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of one oxo and three hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central phosphorus atom .
a chemical ,  natural or artificial ,  that can affect the rate of growth of a plant .
any amino acid whose side chain is capable of forming one or more hydrogen bonds .
natural and synthetic compounds containing alternating carbonyl and methylene groups  ( 'beta - polyketones' )  ,  biogenetically derived from repeated condensation of acetyl coenzyme a  ( via malonyl coenzyme a )  ,  and usually the compounds derived from them by further condensations ,  etc .
a compound that contains two or more hydroxy groups .
natural pigments containing a fundamental skeleton of four pyrrole nuclei united through the alpha - positions by four methine groups to form a macrocyclic structure .
a tightly bound ,  specific nonpolypeptide unit in a protein determining and involved in its biological activity .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a pyridine skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a retinoid consisting of 3 , 7 - dimethylnona - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - tetraenoic acid substituted at position 9 by a 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - en - 1 - yl group  ( geometry of the four exocyclic double bonds is not specified )  .
oxygenated derivatives of 3 , 7 - dimethyl - 1 -  ( 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - enyl ) nona - 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 - tetraene and derivatives thereof .
any salt or ester arising from reaction of the carboxy group of salicylic acid ,  or any ester resulting from the condensation of the phenolic hydroxy group of salicylic acid with an organic acid .
a glycoside that is a compound containing one or more hydrophilic glycoside moieties combined with a lipophilic triterpenoid or steroid derivative .
any organic polycyclic compound that is the aglycon moiety of a saponin ;  sapogenins may be steroids or triterpenoids .
any fatty acid containing no carbon to carbon multiple bonds .
an aliphatic monocarboxylic acid with a chain length of less than c6 .
an inorganic chloride salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the counterion .
any alkali metal salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
a 2 - aminooctadecene - 1 , 3 - diol having  ( 2s , 3r )  - configuration .
sphingolipids are a complex family of compounds that share a common structural feature ,  a sphingoid base backbone .
a sphingenine in which the c=c double bond is located at the 4 - position .
any steroid that acts as hormone .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  - amphetamine  ( also known as levamphetamine or levoamphetamine )  and  ( s )  - amphetamine  ( also known as dexamfetamine or dextroamphetamine .
any isoprenoid that is a natural product or related compound formally derived from isoprene units .
a tertiary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has three other carbon atoms attached to it .
a subclass of polyketides having an octahydrotetracene - 2 - carboxamide skeleton ,  substituted with many hydroxy and other groups .
a natural pigment containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
an organic tricyclic compound in which at least one of the rings of the tricyclic skeleton contains one or more heteroatoms .
any member of the class of benzenes that is a substituted benzene in which the substituents include one  ( and only one )  methyl group .
poisonous substance produced by a biological organism such as a microbe ,  animal or plant .
any nutrient required in small quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an element whose atom has an incomplete d sub - shell ,  or which can give rise to cations with an incomplete d sub - shell .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - tyrosine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - tyrosine by a heteroatom .
a univalent carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
a neutral compound having formal unit electrical charges of opposite sign on non - adjacent atoms .
a cobalt group element atom that has atomic number 27 .
a chlorocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid carrying a 2 - chloro substituent .
a broad - spectrum polyketide antibiotic produced by the streptomyces genus of actinobacteria .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic that contains a beta - lactam ring .
a tropane alkaloid obtained from leaves of the south american shrub erythroxylon coca .
an aromatic amino acid that is alanine in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a phenyl group .
chemical element  ( nickel group element atom )  with atomic number 28 .
an optically active form of tyrosine having d - configuration .
a one - carbon compound that is ammonia in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a carboxy group .
a substituted aniline carrying a hydroxy substituent .
the conjugate base of a fatty acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of the corresponding fatty acid .
an onium cation obtained by protonation of ammonia .
a carboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any dicarboxylic acid .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a colourless ,  volatile ,  poisonous inorganic compound with the formula hnco ;  the simplest stable chemical compound that contains carbon ,  hydrogen ,  nitrogen ,  and oxygen ,  the four most commonly - found elements in organic chemistry and biology .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of two protons from ammonia .
a carboxamide derived from a monocarboxylic acid .
conjugate base of barbituric acid .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of d - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that is the conjugate base of glutamate ( 1 -  )  .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of the both the carboxy groups of l - glutamic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of acetic acid .
a cobalt - corrinoid hexaamide that is cobalamin with the oxidation state of the central cobalt atom unspecified .
a heme is any tetrapyrrolic chelate of iron .
alkaline earth metal atom with atomic number 4 .
a derivative of the dimethylisoalloxazine  ( 7 , 8 - dimethylbenzo [ g ] pteridine - 2 , 4 ( 3h , 10h )  - dione )  skeleton ,  with a substituent on the 10 position .
a silicon oxide made up of linear triatomic molecules in which a silicon atom is covalently bonded to two oxygens .
a 1 , 2 - glycol compound produced via reaction of ethylene oxide with water .
a compound comprising a benzene ring core carrying a carboxylic acid substituent .
the simplest carboxylic acid ,  containing a single carbon .
a monohydroxybenzoate that is the conjugate base of salicylic acid .
a short - chain saturated fatty acid comprising ethane attached to the carbon of a carboxy group .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
a  bipyridine in which the two pyridine moieties are linked by a bond between positions c - 4 and c - 4' .
an optically active form of phenylalaninate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of phenylalaninium having l - configuration .
the d - enantiomer of phenylalaninate .
an optically active form of phenylalaninium having d - configuration .
an aromatic amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylalanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of phenylalanine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an acene that consists of four ortho - fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement .
an optically active form of tyrosinate having l - configuration .
the l - enantiomer of tyrosinate ( 2 -  )  .
an optically active form of tyrosinium having l - configuration .
an optically active form of tyrosinate ( 1 -  )  having d - configuration .
the d - enantiomer of tyrosinate ( 2 -  )  .
an optically active form of tyrosinium having d - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of tyrosine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of tyrosine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by a hydrocarbyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a biochemical role played by any micronutrient that is an organic compound .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
an assembly consisting of a central atom  ( usually metallic )  to which is attached a surrounding array of other groups of atoms  ( ligands )  .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a substance  ( or active part thereof )  that kills or slows the growth of bacteria .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a fertilizer is any substance that is added to soil or water to assist the growth of plants .
any material that can be ingested by an organism .
an energy - rich substance that can be transformed with release of usable energy .
a substance administered to aid diagnosis of a disease .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkali metal .
an alkaline earth molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkaline earth metal .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a hydracid is a compound which contains hydrogen that is not bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
arylmethyl groups and derivatives formed by substitution: arcr2 -  .
a pnictogen oxoacid which contains phosphorus and oxygen ,  at least one hydrogen atom bound to oxygen ,  and forms an ion by the loss of one or more protons .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a transition element .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
the sulfur oxoanion formed by deprotonation of sulfonic acid .
an amino - acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any alpha - amino acid .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
any member of class of 1 , 2 - di - o - acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part  ( usually a mono -  ,  di -  or tri - saccharide )  .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
a main group molecular entity containing one or more atoms of any noble gas .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a homocyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
a polycyclic compound in which two rings have two ,  and only two ,  atoms in common .
any acyclic or cyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated carbon compound ,  excluding aromatic compounds .
an aliphatic compound having a carbocyclic ring structure which may be saturated or unsaturated ,  but may not be a benzenoid or other aromatic system .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
any monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a mancude monocyclic hydrocarbon without side chains of the general formula cnhn  ( n is an even number )  or cnhn + 1  ( n is an odd number )  .
a polycyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one non - carbon atom .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
a d - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a d - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a macromolecule formed by a living organism .
a cation consisting of more than one atom .
an amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position alpha to the carboxy group .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
conjugated protein is a protein that contains a non - peptide component ,  usually in stoichiometric proportion .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
an amino acid whose structure includes an aromatic ring .
any carboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is directly bonded to an aromatic ring .
an amino compound in which the amino group is linked directly to an aromatic system .
a substance used in a chemical reaction to detect ,  measure ,  examine ,  or produce other substances .
a derivative of the corrin nucleus ,  which contains four reduced or partly reduced pyrrole rings joined in a macrocycle by three =c -  groups and one direct carbon - carbon bond linking alpha positions .
any nutrient required in large quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an organic cation that consists of 4 , 4' - bipyridine bearing two n - methyl substituents loctated at the 1 -  and 1' - positions .
saturated acyclic nitrogen hydrides having the general formula nnhn + 2 .
conjugated proteins containing heme as the prosthetic group .
a hydrocarbon of biological origin having carbon skeleton formally derived from isoprene  [ ch2=c ( ch3 ) ch=ch2 ]  .
a c20 terpene .
a substance which is structurally similar to a metabolite but which competes with it or replaces it ,  and so prevents or reduces its normal utilization .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a substance that increases the rate of a reaction without modifying the overall standard gibbs energy change in the reaction .
a fuel such as coal ,  oil and natural gas which has formed over many years through the decomposition of deposited vegetation which was under extreme pressure of an overburden of earth .
the zwitterionic form of an amino acid having a negatively charged carboxyl group and a positively charged amino group .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens bonded to the nitrogen have been replaced with univalent organyl groups .
a polyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement .
any drug that enhances the activity of the central nervous system .
amines that constitute a class of central nervous system stimulants based on the structure of the parent amphetamine 1 - phenylpropan - 2 - amine .
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
any 11 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group at position 11 has beta -  configuration .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
an amide of a sulfonic acid rs ( =o ) 2nr'2 .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
a substance used to treat or prevent parasitic infections .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
a loosely defined grouping of drugs that have effects on psychological function .
a substance that reduces or suppresses inflammation .
an anti - inflammatory drug that is not a steroid .
an agent capable of relieving pain without the loss of consciousness or without producing anaesthesia .
a drug that has principally analgesic ,  antipyretic and anti - inflammatory actions .
a loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system .
a drug that prevents or reduces fever by lowering the body temperature from a raised state .
an agent that promotes the excretion of urine through its effects on kidney function .
an agent that causes an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes .
a drug that mimics the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves .
a compound or agent that combines with cyclooxygenases  ( ec 1 .14 .99 .1 )  and thereby prevents its substrate - enzyme combination with arachidonic acid and the formation of icosanoids ,  prostaglandins ,  and thromboxanes .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
any molecular entity that consists of a ring having  ( formally )  the maximum number of noncumulative double bonds .
a negative ion consisting solely of carbon and oxygen  atoms ,  and therefore having the general formula cxoy ( n -  )  for some integers x ,  y and n .
a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
any ether in which the oxygen is attached to at least one aryl substituent .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a four - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
adrenergic uptake inhibitors are drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals .
any carboxylic acid containing two carboxy groups .
any dicarboxylic acid anion that is a monoanion obtained by the deprotonation of only one of the carboxy groups of the dicarboxylic acid .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
a xenobiotic  ( greek ,  xenos "foreign" ;  bios "life" )  is a compound that is foreign to a living organism .
an agent that suppresses immune function by one of several mechanisms of action .
an  antimicrobial agent that destroys fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce .
a carboxylic acid anion formed when the carboxy group of a monocarboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
sphinganine ,  its homologs and stereoisomers ,  and the hydroxy and unsaturated derivatives of these compounds .
any antimicrobial drug which is used to treat or prevent protozoal infections .
a drug used to treat rheumatoid arthritis .
a compound or agent that combines with lipoxygenase and thereby prevents its substrate - enzyme combination with arachidonic acid and the formation of the icosanoid products hydroxyicosatetraenoic acid and various leukotrienes .
any monocarboxylic acid which also contains a separate  ( alcoholic or phenolic )  hydroxy substituent .
a substance used for its pharmacological action on any aspect of neurotransmitter systems .
natural and synthetic antibiotics containing the 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 .2 .0 ] heptan - 7 - one structure ,  generally assumed to have the 5r configuration unless otherwise specified .
a drug used to treat or prevent microbial infections .
a drug used to treat or prevent bacterial infections .
esters of benzoic acid or substituted benzoic acids .
any monocarboxylic acid anion carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
a biological macromolecule minimally consisting of one polypeptide chain synthesized at the ribosome .
a cyclic ketone in which the carbocyclic ring structure which may be saturated or unsaturated ,  but may not be a benzenoid or other aromatic system .
any member of a group of drugs that reversibly inhibit the propagation of signals along nerves .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
an organochlorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chlorine bond .
a carboxylic acid containing at least one chloro group .
any of a class of steroid hormones that are produced in the adrenal cortex .
two or more cyclic systems  ( single rings or fused systems )  which are directly joined to each other by double or single bonds are named ring assemblies when the number of such direct ring junctions is one less than the number of cyclic systems involved .
an oxo steroid carrying an oxo group at position 20 .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
a 7 , 8 - dimethylbenzo [ g ] pteridine - 2 , 4 - dione that is  isoalloxazine substituted by methyl groups at positions 7 and 8 .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any heteroatomic molecular entity that is a chemical compound of halogen with other chemical elements .
a lactone having a five - membered lactone ring .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
a penam that consists of 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 .2 .0 ] heptane bearing a carboxy group at position 2 and having  ( 2s , 5r )  - configuration .
a carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of at least one oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
a plant growth regulator that modulates the formation of stems ,  leaves and flowers ,  as well as the development and ripening of fruit .
any agent that acts on an adrenergic receptor or affects the life cycle of an adrenergic transmitter .
a carbopolyclic compound comprising of three carbocyclic rings .
a drug used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
a compound composed of two or more pyrrole units .
any member of the class of cardenolides with glycosyl residues attached to position 3 .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing at least one ring oxygen atom .
a drug that has a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output .
a hydroxypyridine carrying a single hydroxy substituent .
any member of the class of  pyridines carrying a hydroxymethyl substituent at unspecified position .
any inhibitor of a dna polymerase .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring in which two of the c - h fragments have been replaced by isolobal nitrogens  ( the diazine parent structure )  .
any drug used for its actions on cholinergic systems .
a pyrimidine carrying one or more oxo substituents .
a member of the class of  pyrimidines that is pyrimidine substituted by at least one amino group and its derivatives .
an ec 1 .9 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cytochrome c oxidase  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .1 )  .
any agent that affects the transport of molecular entities across a biological membrane .
an agent that inhibits sodium influx through cell membranes .
any dianion containing at least one carboxy group .
substance which produces loss of feeling or sensation .
substance that produces loss of consciousness .
any alkylbenzene that is benzene substituted with one or more methyl groups .
a  monocyclic arene that is benzene substituted with one or more alkyl groups .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
a molecular entity able to provide a pair of electrons and thus capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron - pair acceptor  ( lewis acid )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
any chemical substance that inhibits the life - cycle of an organism .
any compound having a pyrimidine as part of its structure .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of phosphoric acid in which one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
a 1 - phenylpropan - 2 - amine that has r configuration .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of dihydrogenphosphate .
a 1 - phenylpropan - 2 - amine that has s configuration .
a  cardenolide glycoside that is digitoxin beta - hydroxylated at c - 12 .
a member of the class of phenols that is 4 - aminophenol in which one of the hydrogens attached to the amino group has been replaced by an acetyl group .
an amino aldehyde that is l - tyrosine in which the carboxy group has undergone formal redution to give the corrresponding aldehyde
fibrous incombustible mineral composed of magnesium and calcium silicates with or without other elements .
in general ,  a mineral is a chemical substance that is normally crystalline formed and has been formed as a result of geological processes .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
an aminodiol composed of any octadecene having hydroxy functional groups at positions 1 and 3 and an amino substituent at position 2 .
a 2 - aminooctadecene - 1 , 3 - diol having its double bond at position 4 .
a 2 - aminooctadec - 4 - ene - 1 , 3 - diol having  ( 2r , 3s )  - configuration .
a  ( 2r , 3s )  - 2 - aminooctadec - 4 - ene - 1 , 3 - diol in which the double bond has e geochemistry .
any carboxylic ester where the carboxylic acid component is acetic acid .
any oxo steroid where an oxo substituent is located at position 3 .
anything used in a scientific experiment to indicate the presence of a substance or quality ,  change in a body ,  etc .
a chemical compound that can be excited by light of a specific wavelength and subsequently transfer energy to a chosen reactant .
a 3 - oxo steroid conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a compound ,  usually an anti - bacterial agent or a toxin ,  which inhibits the synthesis of a protein .
an antimicrobial agent that is applied to non - living objects to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  acceptor .
self - ionizing solvent possessing both characteristics of bronsted acids and bases .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing =o by =nr ;  thus tautomers of amides .
a carboximidic acid that is the imidic acid tautomer of urea ,  h2nc ( =nh ) oh ,  and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
a drug used in the treatment of parkinson's disease .
a drug used for its effects on dopamine receptors ,  on the life cycle of dopamine ,  or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons .
substance which binds to cell receptors normally responding to naturally occurring substances and which produces a response of its own .
substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors that normally bind naturally occurring substances .
silicate minerals that contain aluminium ,  silicon ,  and oxygen ,  together with other ions .
any drug that binds to but does not activate cholinergic receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of acetylcholine or cholinergic agonists .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains a n atom and one s atom .
a chemical substance which inhibits the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a compound that inhibits the action of prostaglandins .
an aldehyde in which a formyl group is located on a heteroarene .
a hydroxyphenylalanine carrying hydroxy substituents at positions 3 and 4 of the benzene ring .
the d - enantiomer of dopa .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a drug that softens ,  separates ,  and causes desquamation of the cornified epithelium or horny layer of skin .
a drug used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the activity of cytochrome p450 involved in catalysis of organic substances .
drug that acts on blood and blood - forming organs and those that affect the hemostatic system .
an agent that prevents blood clotting .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  must undergo chemical conversion by metabolic processes before becoming the pharmacologically active drug for which it is a prodrug .
synthetic or natural substance which is given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent .
a substance that does not act as agonist or antagonist but does affect the gamma - aminobutyric acid receptor - ionophore complex .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
a univalent organyl group obtained by cleaving the bond from c - 2 to the side chain of a proteinogenic amino - acid .
a role played by a molecular entity used to study the microscopic environment .
a drug or agent which antagonizes or impairs any mechanism leading to blood platelet aggregation ,  whether during the phases of activation and shape change or following the dense - granule release reaction and stimulation of the prostaglandin - thromboxane system .
compounds containing a bipyridine group .
drug used to cause constriction of the blood vessels .
a gamma - lactone that consists of a 2 - furanone skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
an aliphatic alcohol in which the aliphatic alkane chain is substituted by a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
a cyclooxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of cyclooxygenase 2 .
a cyclooxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of cyclooxygenase 1 .
an ec 1 .5 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of dihydrofolate reductase  ( ec 1 .5 .1 .3 )  .
a substance used either in the prevention or facilitation of pregnancy .
a chemical substance that interrupts pregnancy after implantation .
a product in capsule ,  tablet or liquid form that provide essential nutrients ,  such as a vitamin ,  an essential mineral ,  a protein ,  an herb ,  or similar nutritional substance .
biologically active substance whose activity affects or plays a role in the functioning of the immune system .
a natural or synthetic analogue of the hormones secreted by the adrenal gland .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a role played by a chemical compound to induce direct or indirect dna damage .
a role played by a chemical compound which is known to  induce a process of carcinogenesis  by corrupting  normal cellular pathways ,  leading to the acquistion of tumoral capabilities .
a chemical compound ,  or part thereof ,  which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a role played by a chemical compound  in biological systems with adverse consequences in embryo developments ,  leading to birth defects ,  embryo death or altered development ,  growth retardation and functional defect .
a role played by a chemical compound exihibiting itself through the ability to induce damage to the liver in animals .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
a compound that specifically inhibits the reuptake of serotonin in the brain .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an organyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a dopaminergic agent that blocks the transport of dopamine into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals .
a drug that modulates the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
an  organic molecule that is electrically neutral carrying a positive and a negative charge in one of its major canonical descriptions .
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement and their substitution derivatives .
compounds containing a tetracene skeleton .
any anion formed by loss of a proton from the carboxy group of a penicillin .
a substance ,  such as agonists ,  antagonists ,  degradation or uptake inhibitors ,  depleters ,  precursors ,  and modulators of receptor function ,  used for its pharmacological actions on gabaergic systems .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
compounds containing a biotin  ( 5 -  [  ( 3as , 4s , 6ar )  - 2 - oxohexahydro - 1h - thieno [ 3 , 4 - d ] imidazol - 4 - yl ] pentanoic acid )  skeleton .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) r ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ketonic c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of methanol .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any molecule or ion capable of binding to a central metal atom to form coordination complexes .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
a compound with the general formula r2c=o  ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group .
an oxyketone with the general formula r2c ( =o )   ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group and the oxy and carbonyl groups are bonded to the same carbon atom .
the biological role played by a material entity when bound by a receptor of the adaptive immune system .
organonitrogen compounds that are derivatives of isocyanic acid ;  compounds containing the isocyanate functional group  - n=c=o  ( as opposed to the cyanate group ,   - o - c#n )  .
any drug found useful in the symptomatic treatment of diarrhoea .
a drug used for its effects on the gastrointestinal system ,  e .g .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained from the transfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group of l - dopa .
conjugate base of biotin arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
dianion of barbituric acid arising from deprotonation at the n - 1 and c - 5 positions .
the cationic sphingoid resulting from the protonation of the amino group of sphingosine .
zwitterionic form of 6 - aminopenicillanic acid arising from migration of a proton from the carboxy group to the 6 - amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the amino group of psychosine .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - phenylalanine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
the anion resulting from removal of a proton from the nitrogen at the 3 position  ( between the two carbonyl gropus )  of riboflavin .
conjugate acid of carbon monoxide arising from protonation of the carbon ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - phenylalanine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - tyrosine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - tyrosine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an organic phosphoric acid derivative in which one or more oxygen atoms of the phosphate group ( s )  has been deprotonated .
any fatty acid anion obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a short - chain fatty acid  ( chain length of less than c6 )  .
any fatty acid anion in which there is no c - c unsaturation .
the conjugate acid of piperidine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a substance used as an indicator  of a biological state .
any substance capable of eliciting an immune response only when attached to a large carrier such as a protein .
any substance that inhibits the synthesis of dna .
a tetrahydropterin that is 2 - amino - 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydropteridin - 4 ( 3h )  - one in which a hydrogen at position 6 is substituted by a 1 , 2 - dihydroxypropyl group  ( 6r , 1'r , 2's - enantiomer )  .
compounds containing one or more phosphoric acid units .
the dianion resulting from the removal of two protons from the phosphate group of pyridoxal 5' - phosphate .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the electrophile )  by donating both bonding electrons .
conjugate base of an l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of an l - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
zwitterionic form of a d - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
the conjugate base of cocaine arising from protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
zwitterionic form of any peptide where ,  in general ,  the amino terminus is positively charged and the carboxy terminus is negatively charged .
flavin protonated to ph 7 .3
any substance that inhibits the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
a retinoic acid that is all - trans - retinoic acid in which the double bond which is alpha , beta -  to the carboxy group is isomerised to z configuration .
any substance which inhibits the action of receptors for excitatory amino acids .
any pharmacological or immunological agent that modifies the effect of other agents such as drugs or vaccines while having few if any direct effects when given by itself .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to inhibit or promote polymerisation of microtubules .
any alpha - amino acid anion in which the parent amino acid has d - configuration .
a racemate is an equimolar mixture of a pair of enantiomers .
a member of the class of cyclohexanones in which one of the hydrogens at position 2 is substituted by a 2 - chlorophenyl group ,  while the other is substituted by a methylamino group .
a steroid that has a structure based on a 21 - carbon  ( pregnane )  skeleton .
any saponin derived from a hydroxysteroid .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to inhibit polymerisation of microtubules .
zwitterionic form of a polar amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
a class of secondary metabolites developed by many plants to influence the behaviour ,  growth or survival of herbivores ,  and thus acting as a defence against herbivory .
a molecular messenger in which the molecule is specifically involved in transmitting information between cells .
an ester where the ester linkage is bonded directly to an aromatic system .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of tyrosine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  any substitution of phenyl hydrogens ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of tyrosine by a heteroatom .
any additive that enhances the efficiency of fuel .
a carbohydrate derivative arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to an oxygen ,  carbon ,  nitrogen or sulfur atom of a separate entity .
a substance that removes electrons from another reactant in a redox reaction .
any organooxygen compound derived from a carbohydrate by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by an amino group ,  a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of alkaline phosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .1 )  .
an aromatic amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( non - protonated )  .
an ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of  na (  +  )  / k (  +  )  - transporting atpase  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .9 )  .
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
a food additive that is used to change or otherwise control the acidity or alkalinity of foods .
an ec 1 .3 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch - ch group of donor ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of arogenate dehydrogenase  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .43 )  .
an organic aromatic compound whose structure contains two aromatic rings or ring systems ,  joined to each other by a single bond .
a food additive which is added to flour or dough to improve baking quality and / or colour .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
any compound that inhibits cell division  ( mitosis )  .
a lipoxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of arachidonate 15 - lipoxygenase  ( ec 1 .13 .11 .33 )  .
any ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of triacylglycerol lipase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .3 )  .
substances which are added to food in order to prevent decomposition caused by  microbial growth or by undesirable chemical changes .
a food preservative which prevents decomposition of food by preventing the growth of fungi or bacteria .
an ammonium ion derivative resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen atom of a primary amino compound .
any compound which can be used to treat or alleviate the symptoms of dyskinesia .
a l - alpha - amino acid anion which is the conjugate base of l - dopa ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group: major species at ph 7 .3 .
any compound that has anti - inflammatory effects .
any monocyclic heteroarene consisting of a five - membered ring containing nitrogen .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of a transferase  ( ec 2 .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of tetracycline obtained by deprotonation of the two enolic hydroxy groups and protonation of the tertiary amino group .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
an  ec 1 .11 .1 .*  ( peroxidases )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of l - ascorbate peroxidase  ( ec 1 .11 .1 .11 )  .
any compound that protects plants by activating their defence mechanisms .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase which acts on acid anhydrides  ( ec 3 .6 .* .
a cyclooxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of cyclooxygenase 3 .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from erythrose 4 - phosphate and phosphoenolpyruvate  ( i .e .
an antimetabolite that impairs the action of folic acids
any steroid lactone that is a  c23 steroid with a five - membered lactone ring at c - 17 and its substituted derivatives .
a compound that causes the contraction of body tissues ,  typically used to reduce bleeding from minor abrasions .
any organic aromatic compound having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a heteroarene ring .
a generally pharmacologically inactive substance that is formulated with the active ingredient of a medication .
an ec 1 .11 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on peroxide as donors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any of the peroxidases  ( ec 1 .11 .1 .
a ligase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a c - n bond - forming ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a ligase  ( ec 6 .* .* .* )  .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
a role played by any of the group of eight water - soluble vitamins originally thought to be a single compound  ( vitamin b )  .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any aromatic amino - acid .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound .
a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range ,  so contributing to the 'greenhouse effect' .
a compressed gas or liquid with a boiling point lower than room temperature which to used to propel and dispense liquids such as deodorants ,  insecticides ,  paints ,  etc .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the action of a phosphorus - containing group transferase  ( ec 2 .7 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of a lyase  ( ec 4 .* .* .* )  .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - o lyase  ( ec 4 .2 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase  ( ec 1 .* .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - oh group of donors  ( ec 1 .1 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - ch group of donors  ( ec 1 .3 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - nh group of donors  ( ec 1 .5 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on a heme group of donors  ( ec 1 .9 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on peroxide as donors  ( ec 1 .11 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen  ( oxygenases )  ,  ec 1 .13 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on hydrogen as donors  ( ec 1 .14 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase  ( ec 3 .* .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .* .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase acting on c - n bonds ,  other than peptide bonds  ( ec 3 .5 .* .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylic ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphoric monoester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any nucleotidyltransferase  ( ec 2 .7 .7 .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any acid - ammonia  ( or amine )  ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .
an ec 1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group )  inhibitor that uses nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .
an ec 1 .13 .*  [ oxidoreductase acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen  ( oxygenases )  ]  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any oxidoreductase incorporating 2 atoms of oxygen  ( ec 1 .13 .11 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme incorporating one atom of oxygen and using reduced flavin or flavoprotein as donor  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any enzyme in the ec 1 .14 .99 .
an ec 1 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .
an ec 1 .5 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .5 .1 .
an ec 1 .9 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .
an ec 3 .6 .*  ( hydrolases acting on acid anhydrides )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme that catalyses transmembrane movement of substances  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .
an ec 1 .14 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating of 1 atom of oxygen ,  with reduced flavin or flavoprotein as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of an unspecified monooxygenase  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .1 )  .
an ec 4 .2 .*  ( c - o lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydro - lyase  ( ec 4 .2 .1 .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in plants ,  the kingdom that include flowering plants ,  conifers and other gymnosperms .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with one or more steps in a metabolic pathway .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any human metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in humans .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
a food additive that imparts colour to food .
any protective agent that is able to prevent damage to the heart .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of prostaglandin - f synthase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .188 )  .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
a zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the 2 - hydroxy group to the 1 - amino group of tetracycline .
an organic anion obtained by removal of one of the methylene protons from barbituric acid .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of amidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .4 )  .
a cationic sphingoid resulting from the protonation of the amino group of l - erythro - sphingosine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a food additive that is a  ( generally inert )  gas which is used to envelop foodstuffs during packing and so protect them from unwanted chemical reactions such as food spoilage or oxidation during subsequent transport and storage .
a propellant that is used to expel foods from an aerosol container .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 3 carbons .
a food product which normally exists as an ingredient to another food product ,  rather than eaten on its own ,  and is more complex than a chemical food component .
any minor or unwanted substance introduced into the environment that can have undesired effects .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any alpha - amino acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
any metabolite produced by all living cells .
any organic molecular entity that contains at least one c=c bond .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carbon of the carboxy group is directly attached to a c=c or c#c bond .
any compound that is added to manufactured materials to inhibit ,  suppress ,  or delay the production of flames and so prevent the spread of fire .
any inorganic anion with a valency of three .
any inorganic anion with a valency of two .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
a member of the class of piperidines that is piperidine in which the nitrogen is substituted with a 1 - phenylcyclohexyl group .
an animal metabolite produced by arthropods such as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimps and krill .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia magna .
a crustacean metabolite produced by the genus of small planktonic arthropods ,  daphnia
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring in which only one substituent is chlorine .
any derivative of a proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or a side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any derivative of a non - proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group or carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any of the 23 alpha - amino acids that are precursors to proteins ,  and are incorporated into proteins during translation .
any amino - acid that is not naturally encoded in the genetic code of any organism .
any derivative of an amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any l - alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino function of any sphingoid
any  alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
steroid lactones containing sugar residues that act on the contractile force of the cardiac muscles .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of d - tyrosine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of d - tyrosine by a heteroatom .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of d - phenylalanine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of d - phenylalanine by a heteroatom .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - phenylalanine  at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - phenylalanine  by a heteroatom .
a cationic sphingoid obtained by protonation of the amino group of any 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - dihydroxysphingoid base .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in algae including unicellular organisms like chlorella and diatoms to multicellular organisms like giant kelps and brown algae .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human blood serum samples .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of a haloacetic acid .
any antifungal agent used to prevent or treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
any metal which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any drug which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
a drug that acts as an antagonist ,  agonist ,  reverse agonist ,  or in some other fashion when interacting with cellular receptors .
a carboxylic acic anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any aromatic carboxylic acid .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
any fibroblast that is deriived from the neural crest .
cell that is part of the migratory cranial neural crest population .
cell that is part of the migratory trunk neural crest population .
male germ cell is a germ cell that supports male gamete production .
a male germ cell that develops from spermatogonia .
a male germ cell that develops from the haploid secondary spermatocytes .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
an euploid male germ cell of an early stage of spermatogenesis .
a smooth muscle cell derived from the neural crest .
a cell that will develop into a neuron often after a migration phase .
a relatively undifferentiated cell that retains the ability to divide and proliferate throughout life to provide progenitor cells that can differentiate into specialized cells .
a stem cell that self - renews as well as give rise to a single mature cell type .
a stem cell from which all cells of the lymphoid and myeloid lineages develop ,  including blood cells and cells of the immune system .
a progenitor cell committed to the erythroid lineage .
a cell that is within the developmental lineage of gametes and is able to pass along its genetic material to offspring .
a myeloid progenitor cell committed to the monocyte lineage .
neural stem cell is characterized as an undifferentiated cell that originates from the neuroectoderm and has the capacity both to perpetually self - renew without differentiating and to generate multiple types of lineage - restricted progenitors .
a stem cell that can give rise to multiple lineages of cells .
a progenitor cell committed to myeloid lineage ,  including the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
a progenitor cell committed to the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
a oligopotent progenitor cell committed to the lymphoid lineage .
a precursor cell with a limited number of potential fates .
a cell that is commited to differentiating into a muscle cell .
a connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
skeletogenic cell that is typically non - terminally differentiated ,  secretes an avascular ,  gag rich matrix ;  is not buried in cartilage tissue matrix ,  retains the ability to divide ,  located adjacent to cartilage tissue  ( including within the perichondrium )  ,  and develops from prechondroblast  ( and thus prechondrogenic )  cell .
skeletogenic cell that produces enamel ,  overlies the odontogenic papilla ,  and arises from the differentiation of a preameloblast cell .
skeletogenic cell that secretes osteoid ,  is capable of producing mineralized  ( hydroxyapatite )  matrix ,  is located adjacent to or within osteoid tissue ,  and arises from the transformation of a preosteoblast cell .
a cell that has a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
an epithelial cell that has a cilia .
an epithelial cell that is part of a duct .
an endothelial cell that lines the vasculature .
a columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell is a cell usually found in a two dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a flattened epithelial cell of mesenchymal origin that lines the serous cavity .
a cell found predominately in the blood .
an epithelial cell of the pancreas .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a t cell receptor complex .
a leukocyte with abundant granules in the cytoplasm .
a cell that is found in almost all tissues containing numerous basophilic granules and capable of releasing large amounts of histamine and heparin upon activation .
a specialized epithelial cell involved in sensory perception .
an efferent neuron that passes from the central nervous system or a ganglion toward or to a muscle and conducts an impulse that causes or inhibits movement .
any neuron having a sensory function ;  an afferent neuron conveying sensory impulses .
an endothelial cell comprises the outermost layer or lining of anatomical structures and can be squamous or cuboidal .
a non - neuronal cell of the nervous system .
a neuroglial cell of ectodermal origin ,  i .e . ,  the astrocytes and oligodendrocytes considered together .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system  -  the largest and most numerous neuroglial cells in the brain and spinal cord .
ectoderm destined to be nervous tissue .
a connective tissue cell that normally gives rise to other cells that are organized as three - dimensional masses .
a fat - storing cell found mostly in the abdominal cavity and subcutaneous tissue of mammals .
skeletogenic cell that is terminally differentiated ,  secretes an avascular ,  gag - rich matrix ,  is embedded in cartilage tissue matrix ,  retains the ability to divide ,  and develops from a chondroblast cell .
a cell capable of processing and presenting lipid and protein antigens to t cells in order to initiate an immune response .
a pigment cell is a cell that contains pigment granules .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
a specialized epithelial cell that is capable of synthesizing and secreting certain biomolecules .
a cell that specializes in controlled release of one or more substances .
a cell that secretes glycosaminoglycans .
a cell that specializes in secretion of surfactant in the alveoli of the lung .
a cell of the epithelial lining that produce and secrete mucins .
a cell of an endocrine gland ,  ductless glands that secrete substances which are released directly into the circulation and which influence metabolism and other body functions .
an endocrine cell that is located in the epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract or in the pancreas .
an endocrine cell that has the specialized function to produce and secrete hormones in response to neuronal signals .
a cell that stores epinephrine secretory vesicles .
a cell that secretes insulin and is located towards the center of the islets of langerhans .
a d cell located in the pancreas .
a leydig cell is a testosterone - secreting cell in the interstitial area ,  between the seminiferous tubules ,  in the testis .
a cell whose primary function is intermediary metabolism .
the main structural component of the liver .
a cell whose primary function is to shorten .
contractile cells resembling smooth muscle cells that are present in glands ,  notably the mammary gland ,  and aid in secretion .
an animal cell that has characteristics of both a fibroblast cell and a smooth muscle cell .
a mature contractile cell ,  commonly known as a myocyte .
a non - striated ,  elongated ,  spindle - shaped cell found lining the digestive tract ,  uterus ,  and blood vessels .
a cell that is capable of detection of a stimulus involved in sensory perception .
a cell specialized to detect and transduce light .
a cell whose function is determined by the generation or the reception of an electric signal .
a cell within an epithelial cell sheet whose main function is to act as an internal or external covering for a tissue or an organism .
a cell whose primary function is to prevent the transport of stuff across compartments .
a supporting cell projecting inward from the basement membrane of seminiferous tubules .
a cell that moves by its own activities .
a cell of the outer of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell of the middle germ layer of the embryo .
a cell of the inner of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell that lacks a nucleus .
a cell with a single nucleus .
a red blood cell .in mammals ,  mature erythrocytes are biconcave disks containing hemoglobin whose function is to transport oxygen .
a non - nucleated disk - shaped cell formed by extrusion from megakaryocytes ,  found in the blood of all mammals ,  and mainly involved in blood coagulation .
any cell capable of ingesting particulate matter via phagocytosis .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a lymphocyte of b lineage that is capable of b cell mediated immunity .
a modified epidermal cell located in the stratum basale .
a non - neuronal cell of the nervous system .
a cell characteristically found lining hollow organs that are subject to great mechanical change due to contraction and distention ;  originally thought to represent a transition between stratified squamous and columnar epithelium .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that produces growth hormone ,  somatotropin .
a mature sexual reproductive cell having a single set of unpaired chromosomes .
an epidermal cell which synthesizes keratin and undergoes a characteristic change as it moves upward from the basal layers of the epidermis to the cornified  ( horny )  layer of the skin .
columnar glandular cell with irregular nucleus ,  copious granular endoplasmic reticulum and supranuclear granules .
an epithelial cell that lines the peripheral gas exchange region of the lungs of air - breathing vertebrates .
a cell that is specialised to accumulate a particular substance ( s )  .
a cell derived from the specialized ectoderm flanking each side of the embryonic neural plate ,  which after the closure of the neural tube ,  forms masses of cells that migrate out from the dorsal aspect of the neural tube to spread throughout the body .
a cell found within the adrenal medulla that secrete biogenic amine hormones upon stimulation .
an early neural cell developing from the early ependymal cell of the neural tube .
an epithelial cell of the integument  ( the outer layer of an organism )  .
a cell whose function is determined by its response to an electric signal .
a cell that initiates an electrical signal and passes that signal to another cell .
a cell whose nucleus ,  or nuclei ,  each contain more than two haploid genomes .
a cell whose nucleus contains a single haploid genome .
a cell with extensive dendritic processes found in the b cell areas  ( primary follicles and germinal centers )  of lymphoid tissue .
a cell of hematopoietic origin ,  typically resident in particular tissues ,  specialized in the uptake ,  processing ,  and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via t cell activation .
langerhans cell is a conventional dendritic cell that has plasma membrane part cd207 .
a cell type that secretes 5 - hydroxytryptamine  ( serotonin )  .
a cell whose primary function is to protect the organism .
mast cell subtype whose granules contain both the serine proteases tryptase and chymase .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that cooperates with other lymphocytes via direct contact or cytokine release to initiate a variety of immune functions .
a connective tissue cell of an organ found in the loose connective tissue .
a supporting cell for the developing female gamete in the ovary of mammals .
a cell found throughout the gastrointestinal tract and in the pancreas .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes androgen binding protein .
a precursor cell destined to differentiate into smooth muscle myocytes .
a neuron which conveys sensory information centrally from the periphery .
a neuron which sends impulses peripherally to activate muscles or secretory cells .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into a pigment cell .
a lymphocyte is a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus ,  a neutral staining cytoplasm ,  and prominent heterochromatin .
an immature ,  nucleated erythrocyte occupying the stage of erythropoeisis that follows formation of erythroid progenitor cells .
a nucleated immature erythrocyte ,  having cytoplasm generally similar to that of the earlier proerythroblast but sometimes even more basophilic ,  and usually regular in outline .
a nucleated ,  immature erythrocyte in which the nucleus occupies a relatively smaller part of the cell than in its precursor ,  the basophilic erythroblast .
the final stage of the nucleated ,  immature erythrocyte ,  before nuclear loss .
the earliest cytologically identifiable precursor in the thrombocytic series .
a giant cell 50 to 100 micron in diameter ,  with a greatly lobulated nucleus ,  found in the bone marrow ;  mature blood platelets are released from its cytoplasm .
a hematopoietic progenitor cell that is committed to the granulocyte and monocyte lineages .
an immature erythrocyte that changes the protein composition of its plasma membrane by exosome formation and extrusion .
a precursor in the monocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between the monoblast and monocyte .
an erythrocyte having a nucleus .
a mesenchymal stem cell capable of developing into blood vessel endothelium .
a cell that originates in the neural crest ,  that has certain cytochemical and ultrastructural characteristics and is found scattered throughout the body ;  types include melanocytes ,  the cells of the chromaffin system ,  and cells in the hypothalamus ,  hypophysis ,  thyroid ,  parathyroids ,  lungs ,  gastrointestinal tract ,  and pancreas .
a mesenchymal cell found in the developing heart and that develops into some part of the heart .
a neuroepithelial cells that occurs singly or in small groups ,  close to the outer follicular borders but within the follicular basement membrane of the thyroid .
one of the two photoreceptor cell types in the vertebrate retina .
myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages ,  osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells .
the reproductive cell in multicellular organisms .
an erythrocyte lacking a nucleus .
a progenitor cell committed to the basophil lineage .
a secretory cell that is grouped together with other cells of the same type to form grape shaped clusters known as acini  ( singular acinus )  .
a lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors and also regulate immune responses via cytokine release and direct contact with other cells .
a mature alpha - beta t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd4 coreceptor .
a t cell expressing an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd8 coreceptor .
a cell whose primary function is to support other cell types .
a cell that stains readily in the anterior pituitary gland .
an acidophilic chromophil cell that of the anterior pituitary gland .
undifferentiated ;  mitotic stem cell for other epithelial cell types ;  rounded or elliptical with little cytoplasm and few organelles ;  contain cytokeratin intermediate filament .
a diploid cell that has derived from a spermatogonium and can subsequently begin meiosis and divide into two haploid secondary spermatocytes .
one of the two haploid cells into which a primary spermatocyte divides ,  and which in turn gives origin to spermatids .
an extracellular matrix secreting cell that secretes collagen .
an elongated ,  contractile cell found wrapped about precapillary arterioles outside the basement membrane .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that is capable of developing into a muscle cell .
epithelial cells derived from neural plate and neural crest .
a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
a cell of a layer of transitional epithelium in the wall of the bladder ,  ureter ,  and renal pelvis ,  external to the lamina propria .
an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement ,  found in blood or other tissue .
a nucleated blood cell involved in coagulation ,  typically seen in birds and other non - mammalian vertebrates .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  mast cell ,  megakaryocyte ,  or erythroid lineage .
a immature or mature cell in the lineage leading to and including erythrocytes .
a nucleated precursor of an erythrocyte that lacks hematopoietic lineage markers .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  or mast cell lineage .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by one or more slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and which can be stained by the dye eosin .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
a dendritic cell of the myeloid lineage .
a b cell that is mature ,  having left the bone marrow .
a terminally differentiated ,  post - mitotic ,  antibody secreting cell of the b cell lineage with the phenotype cd138 - positive ,  surface immunonoglobulin - negative ,  and mhc class ii - negative .
a memory b cell is a mature b cell that is long - lived ,  readily activated upon re - encounter of its antigenic determinant ,  and has been selected for expression of higher affinity immunoglobulin .
a naive b cell is a mature b cell that has the phenotype surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  cd20 - positive ,  cd27 - negative and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
a t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor complex .
an alpha - beta t cell that has an immature phenotype and has not completed t cell selection .
a alpha - beta t cell that has a mature phenotype .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - positive ,  cd44 - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  and pre - tcr - positive .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - positive ,  and cd25 - positive .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive and expressing the t cell receptor beta - chain in complex with the pre - t cell receptor alpha chain .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  and pre - tcr - positive .
a thymocyte expressing the alpha - beta t cell receptor complex as well as both the cd4 and cd8 coreceptors .
an immature alpha - beta t cell that is located in the thymus and is cd4 - positive and cd8 - negative .
an immature alpha - beta t cell that is located in the thymus and is cd8 - positive and cd4 - negative .
an immature b cell is a b cell that has the phenotype surface igm - positive and surface igd - negative ,  and have not undergone class immunoglobulin class switching or peripheral encounter with antigen and activation .
a precursor b cell is a b cell with the phenotype cd10 - positive .
an immature b cell of an intermediate stage between the pre - b cell stage and the mature naive stage with the phenotype surface igm - positive and cd19 - positive ,  and are subject to the process of b cell selection .
a b cell of distinct lineage and surface marker expression .
a b - 1 b cell that has the phenotype cd5 - positive .
a b - 1 b cell that has the phenotype cd5 - negative ,  but having other phenotypic attributes of a b - 1 b cell .
a conventional b cell subject to antigenic stimulation and dependent on t cell help and with a distinct surface marker expression pattern from b - 1 b cells .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally immature and expresses natural killer cell receptors  ( nkr )  .
a lymphoid progenitor cell that is committed to the natural killer cell lineage ,  expressing cd122  ( il - 15 )  receptor ,  but lacking many of the phenotypic characteristics of later stages of natural killer cell development such as expression of nk activating and inhibitory molecules .
a progenitor cell of the b cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific activity such as early stages of recombination of b cell receptor genes ,  but not yet fully committed to the b cell lineage until the expression of pax5 occurs .
a lymphoid progenitor cell of the t cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific marker expression ,  but not yet fully committed to the t cell lineage .
a progenitor cell of the thrombocyte ,  a nucleated blood cell involved in coagulation typically seen in birds and other non - mammalian vertebrates .
a myeloblast committed to the basophil lineage .
a progenitor cell of the mast cell lineage .
the most primitive precursor in the granulocytic series ,  having fine ,  evenly distributed chromatin ,  several nucleoli ,  a high nuclear - to - cytoplasmic ration  ( 5:1 - 7:1 )  ,  and a nongranular basophilic cytoplasm .
a hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell is multipotent ,  but not capable of long - term self - renewal .
a progenitor cell restricted to the lymphoid lineage .
a progenitor cell restricted to the myeloid lineage .
a leukocyte with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form .
a resting mature b cell that has the phenotype igm - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd23 - positive and cd21 - positive ,  and found in the b cell follicles of the white pulp of the spleen or the corticol areas of the peripheral lymph nodes .
a mature b cell that is located in the marginal zone of the spleen with the phenotype cd23 - negative and cd21 - positive and expressing a b cell receptor usually reactive to bacterial cell wall components or senescent self components such as oxidized - ldl .
an immature t cell located in the thymus .
a pro - t cell that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
an antigen inexperienced cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd127 - positive and cd62l - positive .
a recently activated cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has not experienced activation via antigen contact and has the phenotype cd45ra - positive ,  ccr7 - positive and cd127 - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  cd25 - positive ,  and ccr7 - negative .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive ,  that secretes cytokines .
a lymphoid progenitor cell that is found in bone marrow ,  gives rise to b cells ,  t cells ,  natural killer cells and dendritic cells ,  and has the phenotype lin - negative ,  kit - positive ,  sca - 1 - positive ,  flt3 - positive ,  cd34 - positive ,  cd150 negative ,  and glya - negative .
cell committed to natural killer cell lineage that has the phenotype cd122 - positive ,  cd34 - positive ,  and cd117 - positive .
a dendritic cell arising in thymus that has the phenotype cd11c - positive ,  cd11b - negative ,  and cd45ra - negative .
a lymphocyte of b lineage with the commitment to express an immunoglobulin complex .
a lymphocyte of b lineage that is devoted to secreting large amounts of immunoglobulin .
a class switched memory b cell that expresses ige on the cell surface .
a small pre - b - ii cell is a pre - b - ii cell that is rag1 - positive ,  rag2 - positive ,  pre - bcr - negative ,  and bcr - negative ,  is not proliferating ,  and carries a dna rearrangement of one or more immunoglobulin light chain genes .
a pre - b - ii cell is a precursor b cell that expresses immunoglobulin mu heavy chain  ( ighmu +  )  ,  and lack expression of cd34 ,  tdt ,  immunoglobulin kappa light chain and immunoglobulin lambda light chain .
a pre - b - i cell is a precursor b cell that expresses cd34 and surrogate immunoglobulin light chain  ( vpreb  ,  lambda 5  ( mouse )  / 14 .1  ( human )  )  on the cell surface ,  and tdt ,  rag1 , and rag2 intracellularly .
a transitional stage b cell that migrates from the bone marrow into the peripheral circulation ,  and finally to the spleen .
a transitional stage b cell that has the phenotype surface igm - positive ,  surface igd - postive ,  cd21 - positive ,  cd23 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd93 - positive and is located in the splenic b follicles .
a follicular b cell that is igd - positive ,  cd23 - negative ,  and cd38 - negative .
a follicular b cell that is igd - positive and cd23 - positive and cd38 - positive .
an unswitched memory b cell is a memory b cell that has the phenotype igm - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd27 - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  igg - negative ,  ige - negative ,  and iga - negative .
an igm memory b cell is an unswitched memory b cell with the phenotype igm - positive and igd - negative .
a class switched memory b cell is a memory b cell that has undergone ig class switching and therefore is igm - negative on the cell surface .
a class switched memory b cell that expresses iga .
an igg memory b cell is a class switched memory b cell that is class switched and expresses igg on the cell surface .
an activated mature  ( naive or memory )  b cell that is secreting immunoglobulin ,  typified by being cd27 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  cd138 - negative .
a memory b cell with the phenotype igd - negative and cd27 - negative .
a cell of a hematopoietic lineage .
conventional dendritic cell is a dendritic cell that is cd11c - high .
a hematopoietic stem cell that has plasma membrane part kit - positive ,  sca - 1 - positive ,  cd150 - positive and cd34 - negative .
a common lymphoid progenitor that is cd10 - positive ,  cd45ra - positive ,  cd34 - positive and cd38 - positive .
a common myeloid progenitor that is kit - positive and cd34 - positive ,  il7ra - negative ,  and is sca1 - low and fcgr2 - low and fcgr3 - low .
cd133 - positive hematopoietic stem cell is a hematopoietic stem cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd90 - positive ,  and cd133 - positive .
a common lymphoid progenitor that is kit - low ,  flt3 - positive ,  il7ralpha - positive ,  and sca1 - low .
a common myeloid progenitor that is cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  il3ra - low ,  cd10 - negative ,  cd7 - negative ,  cd45ra - negative ,  and il - 5ralpha - negative .
cd7 - negative lymphoid progenitor cell is a lymphoid progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd7 - negative and cd45ra - negative .
cd7 - positive lymphoid progenitor cell is a lymphoid progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd7 - positive and is cd45ra - negative .
a memory b cell that lacks expression of surface igd .
a monocyte that expresses cd14 and is negative for the lineage markers cd3 ,  cd19 ,  and cd20 .
a progenitor cell committed to myeloid lineage ,  including the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
a hematopoietic oligopotent progenitor cell that has the ability to differentiate into limited cell types but lacks lineage cell markers and self renewal capabilities .
a lymphocyte that lacks characteristic t cell ,  b cell ,  myeloid cell ,  and dendritic cell markers ,  that functions as part of the innate immune response to produce cytokines and other effector responses .
a progenitor cell committed to the erythroid lineage .
an innate lymphoid cell that is capable of producing the type 1 cytokine ifn - gamma ,  but not th2 or th17 cell - associated cytokines .
a group 1 innate lymphoid cell that is non - cytotoxic .
an innate lyphoid cell with an immature phenotype .
a lymphocyte of b lineage that is cd19 - positive .
a b cell that is cd19 - positive .
an erythroid progenitor cell is kit - positive ,  ly6a - negative ,  cd41 - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  and cd123 - negative .
a granulocyte monocyte progenitor is cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  il - 3receptor - alpha - positive and is cd45ra - negative .
an erythroid progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive and is glya - negative .
a proerythoblast that is cd34 - negative and glya - negative .
a megakaryocyte erythroid progenitor cell is cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive and is il3 - receptor alpha - negative and cd45ra - negative .
a megakaryocyte erythroid progenitor cell that is kit - positive and is sca1 - negative ,  cd34 - negative ,  cd90 - negative ,  il7r - alpha - negative and fcgr ii / iii - low .
a progenitor cell that can give rise to plasmacytoid and myeloid dendritic cells ,  and to monocytes and macrophages .
a proerythoblast that is kit - low ,  lyg76 - positive ,  and cd71 - positive .
a basophilic erythroblast that is glya - positive .
a basophilic erythroblast that is lyg 76 - high and is kit - negative .
a polychromatophilic erythroblast that is lyg 76 - high and is kit - negative .
a polychromatiic erythroblast that is gly - a - positive and cd71 - low .
an orthochromatophilic erythroblast that is ter119 - high ,  cd71 - low ,  and kit - negative .
an erythroblast that is glya - positive and cd71 - negative .
a reticulocyte that is ly76 - high and is kit - negative .
a reticulocyte that is glya - positive .
an enucleate erythrocyte that is glya - positive .
an enucleate erythrocyte that is lyg - 76 - high .
a megakaryocyte progenitor cell that is kit - positive ,  cd41 - positive ,  cd9 - positive ,  sca - 1 - negative ,  il7ralpha - negative ,  cd150 - negative ,  and fcgamma receptor ii / iii - low .
a megakaryocyte cell with is cd9 - positive and cd41 - positive .
a cell type that can give rise to basophil and mast cells .
a lineage - negative ,  kit - positive ,  cd45 - positive mast cell progenitor that is fc - epsilon rialpha - low .
a lineage negative ,  sca1 - negative basophil progenitor cell that is fc epsilon rialpha - high .
a hematopoietic progenitor cell that is capable of developing into only one lineage of hematopoietic cells .
a hematopoietic oligopotent progenitor cell that has the ability to differentiate into limited cell types but lacks lineage cell markers and self renewal capabilities .
a hematopoietic stem cell capable of rapid replenishment of myeloerythroid progenitors and limited self renewal capability .
a hematopoietic stem cell with long term self renewal capability .
a hematopoietic progenitor that has restricted self - renewal capability .
a hematopoietic progenitor that has some limited self - renewal capability .
a hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - negative ,  cd45ra - negative ,  and cd90 - negative .
a basophil mast progenitor cell that is beta - 7 integrin - high ,  kit - positive fcrgammaii / iii - positive and sca1 - negative .
a pro - b cell that cd45r / b220 - positive ,  cd43 - positive ,  hsa - low ,  bp - 1 - negative and ly6c - negative .
a precursor b cell that is cd45ra - positive ,  cd43 - positive ,  cd24 - positive and bp - 1 - negative .
a precursor b cell is cd45r - positive ,  cd43 - positive ,  cd24 - positive ,  and bp - positive .
a pre - bcr - positive precursor b cell that is cd24 - high ,  cd25 - positive ,  cd43 - positive ,  cd45r - positive and bp - positive .
a pre - b cell that is pre - bcr - negative ,  and the kappa -  and lambda -  light immunoglobulin light chain - negative ,  cd43 - low ,  and is bp - 1 - positive ,  cd45r - positive and cd25 - positive .
an immature b cell that is igm - positive ,  cd45r - positive ,  cd43 - low ,  cd25 - negative ,  and cd127 - negative .
a mature b cell subset originally defined as having being cd45r - positive ,  igm - positive ,  igd - positive and cd43 - negative .
a conventional thymic dendritic cell that is cd8alpha - positive .
a type ii pneumocyte is a pneumocyte that modulates the fluid surrounding the alveolar epithelium by secreting and recycling surfactants .
a secretory cell found in pancreatic acini that secretes digestive enzymes and mucins .
an epithelial cell derived from endoderm .
an epithelial cell derived from ectoderm .
epithelial cell derived from mesoderm or mesenchyme .
a leukocyte that lacks granules .
a cd38 - positive naive b cell is a mature b cell that has the phenotype cd38 - positive ,  surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  and cd27 - negative ,  and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
a cd38 - negative naive b cell is a mature b cell that has the phenotype cd38 - negative ,  surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  and cd27 - negative ,  that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
an igg - positive double negative memory b cell is a double negative memory b cell with the phenotype igg - positive ,  igd - negative ,  and cd27 - negative .
an igg - negative double negative memory b cell is a double negative memory b cell with the phenotype igg - negative ,  igd - negative ,  and cd27 - negative .
a cd38 - positive igg memory b cell is a class switched memory b cell that expresses igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd38 - positive and igg - positive .
an igd - positive cd38 - positive igg memory b cell is a cd38 - positive igg - positive class switched memory b cell that has class switched and expresses igd on the cell surface with the phenotype igd - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  and igg - positive .
an igd - negative cd38 - positive igg memory b cell is a cd38 - positive igg - positive that has class switched and lacks expression of igd on the cell surface with the phenotype igd - negative ,  cd38 - positive ,  and igg - positive .
a cd38 - negative igg memory b cell is a igg - positive class switched memory b cell that has class switched and expresses igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd38 - negative ,  igd - negative ,  and igg - positive .
a b220 - positive cd38 - positive naive b cell is a cd38 - positive naive b cell that has the phenotype b220 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  and cd27 - negative ,  and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
a b220 - low cd38 - positive naive b cell is a cd38 - positive naive b cell that has the phenotype b220 - low ,  cd38 - positive ,  surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  and cd27 - negative ,  that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
an cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell is an unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype cd38 - negative ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - positive cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell is a cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype b220 - positive ,  cd38 - negative ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - low cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell is a cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype b220 - low ,  cd38 - negative ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell is an unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype cd38 - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - positive cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell is a cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype b220 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - low cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell is a cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype b220 - low ,  cd38 - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface .
a cd38 - negative igg - negative memory b cell is a igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd38 - negative and igg - negative .
a cd38 - positive igg - negative memory b cell is an igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd38 - positive and igg - negative .
an cd24 - positive cd38 - negative igg - negative memory b cell is a cd38 - negative igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd24 - positive ,  cd38 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a cd24 - negative cd38 - negative igg - negative memory b cell is a cd38 - negative igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd24 - negative ,  cd38 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - positive cd38 - positive igg - negative memory b cell is a cd38 - positive igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype b220 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - low cd38 - positive igg - negative memory b cell is a cd38 - positive igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype b220 - low ,  cd38 - positive ,  and igg - positive .
a endothelial cell of a lymphatic vessel .
an endothelial cell of the vascular tree ,  which includes blood vessels and lymphatic vessels .
a ciliated columnar cell found in the trachea and bronchus .
epithelial cells derived from general body ectoderm and ectoderm placodes .
a cell within the follicle of an ovary .
a basally situated ,  mitotically active ,  columnar - shaped keratinocyte attached to the basement membrane .
a cell involved in the formation of a granulocyte .
a cell involved in the formation of a monocyte  ( monopoiesis )  .
a stem cell that can give rise to the cells of the liver .
an epithelial cell of the tracheobronchial tree .
an epithelial cell present in the trachea and bronchi ;  columnar in shape ;  generally lack cilia ;  immature forms of ciliated or secretory cells which have been formed from stem cells .
a fibroblast in the bone marrow .
a cell containing at least one nucleus .
an epithelial cell of thyroid gland .
a cell type that varies from squamous to columnar ,  depending on their activity with microvillus directed luminally .
a cell type that secretes histamine .
an epithelial cell of the thymus .
a ciliated epithelial cell of the retina ,  this cell type uptakes sodium chloride and passes it to non - pigmented ciliary epithelial cells .
an acidophilic cell of the anterior pituitary that produces growth hormone ,  somatotropin .
a cell that is part of the nervous system .
a cell of the supporting or framework tissue of the body ,  arising chiefly from the embryonic mesoderm and including adipose tissue ,  cartilage ,  and bone .
a cell of the embryo .
an epithelial cell of the bronchus .
a ciliated cell of the bronchus .
a fat cell derived from a neural crest cell .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally immature ,  has the phenotype cd34 - negative ,  cd56 - positive ,  cd117 - positive ,  cd122 - positive , and cd161 - positive .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally immature ,  has the phenotype cd34 - negative ,  cd56 - negative ,  cd117 - positive ,  cd122 - positive , and cd161 - positive .
a multi - fate stem cell that is able to differentiate into the pancreas alpha ,  beta and delta endocrine cells .
an endo - epithelial cell of the respiratory tract .
a simple columnar epithelial cell that secretes mucin .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
a precursor b cell that is aa4 - positive ,  igm - negative ,  cd19 - positive ,  cd43 - positive and hsa - positive .
a t cell that has not completed t cell selection .
a reticulocyte that retains the nucleus and other organelles .
a reticulocyte lacking a nucleus and showing a basophilic reticulum under vital staining due to the presence of ribosomes .
a dn2 thymocyte that is kit - hi .
a dn2 thymocyte that is kit - low .
a pro - t cell that is lin - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  cd44 - positive and kit - positive .
a double - positive ,  alpha - beta thymocyte that is small and not proliferating .
a double - positive thymocyte that is large  ( i .e .
a double - positive thymocyte that is cd69 - positive and has begun positive selection .
a double - positive thymocyte that is undergoing positive selection ,  has high expression of the alpha - beta t cell receptor ,  is cd69 - positive ,  and is in the process of down regulating the cd4 co - receptor .
a double - positive thymocyte that is undergoing positive selection ,  has high expression of the alpha - beta t cell receptor ,  is cd69 - positive ,  and is in the process of down regulating the cd8 co - receptor .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd8 - negative thymocyte that is cd24 - positive and expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd8 - negative thymocyte that expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor and is cd69 - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  cd4 - negative thymocyte that is cd24 - positive and expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor .
a cd8 - positive ,  cd4 - negative thymocyte that expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor and is cd69 - positive .
a mature cd4 - positive ,  cd8 - negative alpha - beta t cell found in the thymus that is cd24 - low and has high expression of the t cell receptor .
a mature cd8 - positive ,  cd4 - negative alpha - beta t cell found in the thymus that is cd24 - low and has high expression of the t cell receptor .
the cell type from which oligodendrocytes develop .
cd4 - negative ,  cd8_alpha - negative ,  cd11b - positive dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - positive ,  cd4 - negative ,  cd8_alpha - negative and is cd205 - positive .
a langerhans cell that is in the epidermis and is cd45 - positive ,  mhcii - positive ,  and cd11b - positive .
a conventional thymic dendritic cell that is cd8alpha - negative .
a conventional dendritic cell that expresses cd11b  ( itgam )  .
the flattened smooth myoepithelial cells of mesodermal origin that lie just outside the basal lamina of the seminiferous tubule .
a melanocyte that produces pigment in the epithelium .
a melanocyte of the retina .
a thymocyte that lacks expression of cd4 and cd8 .
a cell located in the heart ,  including both muscle and non muscle cells .
a dermal dendritic cell isolated from skin draining lymph nodes that is langerin - positive ,  mhc - ii - positive ,  and cd4 - negative and cd8a - negative .
a mesenchymal stem cell that is part of the bone marrow .
an endothelial cell that is part of the vein .
an endothelial progenitor cell that participates in angiogenesis during development .
a fibroblast of the lymphatic system .
a mesenchymal stem cell of liver .
a glial cell that ensheathes axons of neuron in the peripheral nervous system and are necessary for their maintainance and function .
a stromal cell of the pancreas .
a pericyte of the central nervous system .
a myofibroblast that lies in the connective tissue of the spinal cord that has a distinctly lamellar arrangement .
a blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of the retina .
a smooth muscle cell of the bladder .
a cell of the seminiferous tubule epithelium .
a multi - fate stem cell that can give rise to different retinal cell types including rod and cone cells .
a neuroblast derived from a neural crest cell .
a lymphocyte found in adipose tissue that lacks lineage markers of other lymphocytes but is capable of mediating th2 cytokine responses .
a ciliated epithelial cell with many cilium .
lymphatic progenitor cells .
lymphatic progenitor cells ,  derived from the veins ,  that give rise to lymphatic endothelial cells .
multi fate stem cell that gives rise to both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes as descendants .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to develop into an ameloblast .
cell that is part of the neural crest region of the neuroepithelium ,  prior to migration .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to develop into a chondroblast ;  and arises from neural crest ,  meseosdermal and notochordal and connective tissue cells .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to transform into an osteoblast ,  and develops from neural crest or mesodermal cells .
any muscle cell in which the fibers are not organised into sarcomeres .
any hematopoietic cell that is a precursor of some other hematopoietic cell type .
a muscle cell that is part of some visceral muscle
a non - polarised cell precursor cell that is part of some mesenchyme ,  is associated with the cell matrix but is not connected to other cells and is capable of migration .
an endocrine cell that is part of the pancreas .
mural cells are pericytes and the vascular smooth muscle cells  ( vsmcs )  of the microcirculation .
a stromal cell that is part_of a bone marrow .
a mononuclear cell that is part_of a bone marrow .
a cell of the neural crest .
a precursor cell that has a tendency to differentiate into a specific type of cell .
a cell that ,  by division or terminal differentiation ,  can give rise to other cell types .
any serous secreting cell that is part of the tracheobronchial epithelium .
any chondrocyte that is part of the tracheobronchial tree .
any goblet cell that is part of the tracheobronchial epithelium .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of any lymphatic vessel .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the tracheobronchial tree .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of bronchus .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of pancreatic duct .
a serous secreting cell that is part of the epithelium of bronchus .
a somatic stem cell that is part of the epidermis .
a basal cell that is part of the urothelium .
hematopoietic cells resident in the bone marrow .
any melanocyte that is part of a epidermis .
any neuron that is part of a central nervous system .
any neuron that is part of a peripheral nervous system .
any dendritic cell that is part of a liver .
cytoplasm that exhibits a characteristic staining and color ,  pale - pink ,  with wright - giemsa stain .
cytoplasm that exhibits a characteristic staining and color ,  red or pink ,  with eosin stain .
cytoplasm that exhibits molecular interaction for basic dyes under specific ph conditions .
cytoplasm that exhibits affinity for both basic and acid stains under specific ph conditions .
a nucleus size quality which is relatively high compared to the amount of cytoplasm present in the same cell .
heterochromatin that is arranged in a carthwheel pattern .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to electromagnetic radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to ultraviolet radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to visible spectrum radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to environmental material .
an exposure to organic molecular entity .
an exposure to organic cyclic compound .
an exposure to corticosterone .
an exposure to lipid .
an exposure to carbon monoxide .
an exposure to chemical entity .
an exposure to steroid hormone .
an exposure to glucocorticoid .
an exposure to oxygen molecular entity .
an exposure to formaldehyde .
an exposure to transition element molecular entity .
an exposure to biological role .
an exposure to application .
an exposure to chemical role .
an exposure to alkylating agent .
an exposure to drug .
an exposure to herbicide .
an exposure to hormone .
an exposure to mitochondrial respiratory - chain inhibitor .
an exposure to mutagen .
an exposure to mycotoxin .
an exposure to neurotransmitter .
an exposure to pesticide .
an exposure to toxin .
an exposure to molecular messenger .
an exposure to antimicrobial agent .
an exposure to inhibitor .
an exposure to vasodilator agent .
an exposure to ec 1 .9 .3 .1  ( cytochrome c oxidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to bronsted acid .
an exposure to disinfectant .
an exposure to agonist .
an exposure to p450 inhibitor .
an exposure to probe .
an exposure to genotoxin .
an exposure to carcinogenic agent .
an exposure to allergen .
an exposure to neurotoxin .
an exposure to ligand .
an exposure to biomarker .
an exposure to signalling molecule .
an exposure to ec 3 .5 .1 .4  ( amidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to environmental contaminant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to temperature of environmental material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to temperature of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of temperature of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased temperature .
an exposure to aflatoxin .
an exposure to organochlorine compound .
an exposure to cadmium molecular entity .
an exposure to mercury molecular entity .
an exposure to chloroacetic acid .
an exposure to steroid .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to quality .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to qualitative .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to physical object quality .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to manufactured product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of environmental condition .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of high temperature environment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of high pressure environment .
a history of exposure to organism .
a history of exposure to viruses .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to deviation ( from_normal ) deviation  ( from_normal )  of quality .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased temperature .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of salt .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of salt .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased pressure .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased pressure .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of temperature of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to frozen of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of temperature of soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of temperature of soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of temperature of water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of temperature of water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to geographic feature .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to clay .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to rock .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to sand .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to stellar radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to gaseous environmental material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to liquid water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to particulate matter .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to organic material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to snow .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to mineral material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to permafrost .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to chemically enriched sediment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to aerosol .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to contaminated water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to sea water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to environmental system process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to atmospheric process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to anthropogenic modulatory intervention process .
an exposure to hydrogen chloride .
an exposure to acetic acid .
an exposure to alkali metal salt .
an exposure to alcohol .
an exposure to ketone .
an exposure to carbon dioxide .
an exposure to chlorine molecular entity .
an exposure to solvent .
an exposure to water .
an exposure to acetate .
an exposure to inorganic molecular entity .
an exposure to metal cation .
an exposure to tetracycline .
an exposure to formic acid .
an exposure to nitrogen molecular entity .
an exposure to salt .
an exposure to polycyclic arene .
an exposure to dioxygen .
an exposure to chlorine atom .
an exposure to primary alcohol .
an exposure to sodium chloride .
an exposure to inorganic acid .
an exposure to gas molecular entity .
an exposure to endocrine disruptor .
an exposure to electron donor .
an exposure to cofactor .
an exposure to micronutrient .
an exposure to antibacterial agent .
an exposure to nutrient .
an exposure to fuel .
an exposure to reagent .
an exposure to macronutrient .
an exposure to antiinfective agent .
an exposure to antiparasitic agent .
an exposure to anti - inflammatory drug .
an exposure to antiprotozoal drug .
an exposure to antimicrobial drug .
an exposure to antibacterial drug .
an exposure to anaesthetic .
an exposure to protein synthesis inhibitor .
an exposure to polar solvent .
an exposure to protic solvent .
an exposure to amphiprotic solvent .
an exposure to antagonist .
an exposure to oxidising agent .
an exposure to food additive .
an exposure to food acidity regulator .
an exposure to antimicrobial food preservative .
an exposure to anti - inflammatory agent .
an exposure to astringent .
an exposure to greenhouse gas .
an exposure to food packaging gas .
an exposure to food propellant .
an exposure to food component .
an exposure to refrigerant .
an exposure to food preservative .
an exposure to flame retardant .
an exposure to acid .
an exposure to polycyclic hydrocarbon .
an anthropogenic geographic feature is a geographic feature resulting from the influence of human beings on nature .
a geographical feature associated with water .
a marine water body which is constitutes the majority of an astronomical body's hydrosphere .
a large expanse of saline water usually connected with an ocean .
a geographical feature associated with water with a halinity above 30 ppt  ( roughly 35 g / l )  .
a lake whose water contains a considerable concentration of dissolved salts .
a body of water or other liquid of considerable size contained in a depression on a landmass .
an accumulation of water of varying size .
a construction that has been assembled by deliberate human effort .
a permanent walled and roofed construction .
a region rendered barren or partially barren by environmental extremes ,  especially by low rainfall .
a depression which has been formed as a result of erosion by water or ice and which is low - lying ,  bordered by higher ground ,  and especially elongate .
an area in which grasses  ( graminae )  are a significant component of the vegetation .
land having a cover of trees ,  shrubs ,  or both .
an area with a high density of trees .
a valley that no longer has a surface flow of water .
a hydrographic feature characterized by the dominance of snow or ice .
soil or rock and included ice or organic material at or below the freezing point of water  ( 0 degrees celsius or 32 degrees fahrenheit )  for two or more years .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical distance of a point above or below a reference surface .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of solid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
broken rock that appears at the bottom of crags ,  mountain cliffs or valley shoulders .
a valley that contains ,  or contained ,  a glacier and was formed by glacial activity .
area covered with low - growing or stunted perennial vegetation and usually not mixed with trees .
that part of the land in immediate contact with a body of water including the area between high and low water lines .
a landform sunken or depressed below the surrounding area .
an abiotic  mesoscopic feature made of the mineral material of the crust of the earth .
a biome is an ecosystem to which resident ecological communities have evolved adaptations .
a biome which is  primarily or completely situated on a landmass .
an aquatic biome which is determined by a marine water body .
a rock is a naturally occurring solid aggregate of one or more minerals or mineraloids .
soil is an environmental material which is primarily composed of minerals ,  varying proportions of sand ,  silt ,  and clay ,  organic material such as humus ,  gases ,  liquids ,  and a broad range of resident micro -  and macroorganisms .
a significant accumulation of water which is part of a marine biome .
a solid astronomical body part which is part of the planetary surface between the peak of an elevation or the bottom of a depression and  relatively flat surrounding land .
an object which is large enough to be visible to humans ,  but small enough that humans can handle the object  ( i .e .
the mixture of gases  ( roughly  ( by molar content / volume: 78% nitrogen ,  20 .95% oxygen ,  0 .93% argon ,  0 .038% carbon dioxide ,  trace amounts of other gases ,  and a variable amount  ( average around 1% )  of water vapor )  that surrounds the planet earth .
an environmental material primarily composed of dihydrogen oxide in its liquid form .
sediment is an environmental substance comprised of any particulate matter that can be transported by fluid flow and which eventually is deposited as a layer of solid particles on the bedor bottom of a body of water or other liquid .
minute solid particles with diameters less than 500 micrometers .
water which contains a significant concentration of dissolved salts .
rock formed from molten magma .
a rock formed by deposition of either clastic sediments ,  organic matter ,  or chemical precipitates  ( evaporites )  ,  followed by compaction of the particulate matter and cementation during diagenesis .
a rock formed by subjecting any rock type  ( including previously - formed metamorphic rock )  to different temperature and pressure conditions than those in which the original rock was formed .
a biome which is determined by a water body and which has ecological climax communities adapted to life in or on water .
sediment which has increased levels of one or more chemical compounds .
water which has physicochemical properties that have been determined by the processes occuring in a sea or ocean .
chemically - enriched sediment which has increased levels of organic compounds .
chemically - enriched sediment which has increased levels of inorganic compounds .
a portion of soil which is found in a forested area .
a material which is not the desired output of a process and which is typically the input of a process which removes it from its producer  ( e .g .
obsolete a material entity which determines an environmental system .
the biomass remaining after sugarcane stalks are crushed to extract their juice .
a group of hydrous aluminium phyllosilicate  ( phyllosilicates being a subgroup of silicate minerals )  minerals  ( see clay minerals )  ,  that are typically less than 2 micrometres in diameter .
a fermented ,  high - moisture forage that can be fed to ruminants .
a material entity that has been processed by humans or their technology in any way ,  including intermediate products as well as final products .
a portion of enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of some material entity .
soil which has little to no water content and in which minerals and other soluble chemical entities have either bonded or become adsorbed to sold particles due to insufficient water availability .
a portion of soil which is found in a grassland .
sand which is part of a desert .
a portion of environmental material is a fiat object which forms the medium or part of the medium of an environmental system .
a layer of some material entity which is adjacent to one or more of its external boundaries and directly interacts with its immediate surroundings .
airborne solid particles  ( also called dust or particulate matter  ( pm )  )  or liquid droplets .
anthropogenic material in or on which organisms may live .
silt is granular material of a size somewhere between sand and clay whose mineral origin is quartz and feldspar .
a naturally occurring granular material composed of finely divided rock and mineral particles .
the marine pelagic biome  ( pelagic meaning open sea )  is that of the marine water column ,  from the surface to the greatest depths .
the neritic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column above a continental shelf .
the oceanic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column offshore ,  beyond a continental shelf .
the oceanic sea surface microlayer  ( sml )  biome comprises the top 1000 micrometers of the marine surface waters occurring offshore ,  away from a continental shelf .
the neritic sea surface microlayer  ( sml )  biome comprises the top 1000 micrometers of marine surface waters occurring above a continental shelf .
a prominent or distinctive aspect ,  quality ,  or characteristic of environments occurring within the marine water column .
a marine biome which is determined by an ocean .
particulate material is an environmental material which is composed of microscopic portions of solid or liquid material suspended in another environmental material .
environmental material derived from living organisms and composed primarily of one or more biomacromolecules .
a shrubland biome is a terrestrial biome which includes ,  across its entire spatial extent ,  dense groups of shrubs .
a desert biome is a terrestrial biome which loses more liquid water by evapotranspiration than is supplied by precipitation and includes communities adapted to these conditions .
an environmental condition is a range of a determinate quality or combination of qualities that are present in an environmental system .
a montane shrubland biome is a shrubland biome which occurs in regions elevated above sea level and which has community structure determined by elevation - dependent environmental conditions .
an anthropogenic terrestrial biome is a terrestrial biome which has community structures determined by human activity .
an environmental condition in which annual precipitation is less than half of annual potential evapotranspiration .
lava is a mixture of molten or semi - molten rock ,  volatiles ,  and solids which has extruded beyond a planetary crust .
a scrubland which is located in a desert .
a dense settlement biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which is primarily used for human habitation ,  recreation ,  and industry within built structures with little other land use .
a system which has the disposition to environ one or more material entities .
a mineral material is an environmental material which is primarily composed of some substance that is naturally occurring ,  solid and stable at room temperature ,  representable by a chemical formula ,  usually abiogenic ,  and that has an ordered atomic structure .
water vapour is a vapour which is the gas phase of water .
an atmosphere is a layer of gases surrounding a material body of sufficient mass that is held in place by the gravity of the body .
atmospheric water vapour is water vapour that is part of an atmosphere .
clastic sedimentary rocks are sedimentary rocks that are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids .
slate is a metamorphic rock which is fine - grained ,  foliated ,  homogeneous ,  slates are derived from clastic sedimentary rocks .
a large unit of land or water containing a geographically distinct assemblage of species ,  natural communities ,  and environmental conditions .
ice is water frozen into a solid state .
ecozones delineate large areas of a planetary surface within which organisms have been evolving in relative isolation over long periods of time ,  separated from one another by geographic features ,  such as oceans ,  broad deserts ,  or high mountain ranges ,  that constitute barriers to migration .
a layer is a quantity of some material which is spatially continuous ,  has comparable thickness ,  and usually covers some surface .
a layer which is part of a lake .
a mass of water ice .
a layer that is part of a marine water body .
an endolithic environment is an environment that exists within solid rock .
a high pressure environment is an environment in which all material entities are exposed to a high ratio of force per unit area .
a high temperature environment is an environment in which material entities are exposed to increased levels of heat radiation or which have molecules or atoms moving randomly with increased levels of average kinietic energy .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by saline water .
an environment which has a lower temperature than some local or global average .
an anthropogenic environment is an environmental system which is the product of human activity .
a high osmolarity environment is an environment in which entities are exposed to high concentrations of solutes .
an environment whose dynamics are strongly influenced by water .
a rocky slope is a slope which has a surface primarily composed of rock .
a marine environment and enviroment which is determined by a marine water body .
an environmental system determined by seawater .
the atmospheric boundary layer is the lowest layer of an atmosphere which is strongly influenced by its contact with a planetary surface with strong vertical mixing and in which physical quantities such as flow velocity ,  temperature ,  and moisture display rapid fluctuations  ( turbulence )  .
a planetary surface is a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of a planet comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
a layer in a water mass ,  itself composed primarily of water .
a talus slope is a slope which has a surface layer composed of scree .
an altitudinal condition which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a monthly mean temperature is less than 10 degrees celsius and being located at altitudes above the tree line and below the snowline .
an altitudinal condition which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being located at an altitude between mid - altitude forests and the tree line .
an altitudinal condition is an environmental condition in which ranges of factors such as temperature ,  humidity ,  soil composition ,  solar irradiation ,  and tree density vary with ranges in altitude .
a layer which is determined by a form of vegetation .
snow is an environmental material which is primarily composed of flakes of crystalline water ice .
a site which has its extent determined by the presence or influence of one or more components of an environmental system or the processes occurring therein .
a building part is a construction which is part of a building .
a layer that is part of the atmosphere .
a boundary layer is a layer of fluid in the immediate vicinity of a bounding surface where the effects of viscosity are significant enough to distort the surrounding non - viscous flow .
a gas that is primarily composed of hydrocarbon molecules .
a lentic water body is a water body in which the accumulated water ,  in its totality ,  has very little to no directed flow .
hydrological condensation is a process in which atmospheric water vapour undergoes a phase transition from the gas phase to the liquid phase .
a landmass which is part of a planet .
outer space is a hard vacuum containing a low density of particles ,  predominantly a plasma of hydrogen and helium as well as electromagnetic radiation ,  magnetic fields ,  neutrinos ,  dust and cosmic rays that exists between celestial bodies .
a planetary crust is the outermost solid shell of a rocky planet or natural satellite ,  which is chemically distinct from the underlying mantle .
a planetary structural layer is laminar part of a terrestrial planet or other rocky body large enough to have differentiation by density .
a planetary mantle is a planetary layer which is an interior part of a terrestrial planet or other rocky body large enough to have differentiation by density .
a lithosphere is the outermost shell of a terrestrial - type planet or natural satellite that is defined by its rigid mechanical properties .
magma is a mixture of molten or semi - molten rock ,  volatiles ,  and solids that is found beneath the uppermost solid layer of a planetary body .
a role that is realized in some process wherein the bearer is discarded or not utilized further .
contaminated air is air which has sufficient concentrations of environmental pollutants such that it may adversely affect a given ecosystem .
a lake which has concentrations of environmental contaminants high enough to harm the ecosystems associated with it .
a mass of water .
a coast is the area where land meets the sea ,  ocean ,  or lake .
hydrological precipitation is a process during which any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapour is pulled to the planetary surface by gravity .
condensation is a process during which a gas undergoes a phase transition into a liquid .
an environmental system which can sustain and allow the growth of an ecological population .
a process in which natural ecosystems present over an expanse of land are removed and replaced with anthropogenic ecosystems .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily composed of bedrock ,  desert pavement ,  scarp rock ,  talus ,  material exposed by slides ,  volcanic material ,  glacial debris ,  sand ,  material exposed during strip mining ,  gravel ,  and other accumulations of earthen material in contact with an atmospheric column extending from the planetary boundary layer to the planet's exosphere with little to no physical obstruction .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of gaseous or aerosolised material held in shape by one or more environmental processes .
a material entity which is composed of one or more chemical entities and has neither independent shape nor volume but tends to expand indefinitely .
a material entity which is composed of a volume of unbound positive and negative particles in roughly equal numbers ,  conducts electricity ,  and possesses internal magnetic fields .
an object which is naturally occuring ,  bound together by gravitational or electromagnetic forces ,  and surrounded by space .
a planet is an astronomical body orbiting a star or stellar remnant that is massive enough to be rounded by its own gravity ,  is not massive enough to cause thermonuclear fusion ,  and has cleared its neighbouring region of planetesimals .
an astronomical object which is composed primarily of luminous plasma held in a spherical form by gravitational forces .
an object which is composed of one or more gravitationally bound structures that are associated with a position in space .
a material part of an astronomical body .
an environmental material which is in a solid state .
an environmental material which is in a liquid state .
a biosphere is a part of an astronomical body which includes ,  as parts ,  all the living entities within the gravitational sphere of influence of that body ,  as well as the non - living and dead entities with which they interact .
a cryosphere is that part of a planet which is primarily composed of water is in solid form .
an astronomical body part which is composed of the combined mass of water found on ,  under ,  and over the surface of a planet .
an astronomical body part which is composed of soil ,  subject to soil formation processes ,  and found on the surface of a lithosphere .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by a shrubs ,  young trees ,  or stunted trees . .
a precipitation process is a process in which a portion of some substance segregates from a material in which that substance or its precursors were dissolved or suspended in and settles due to a force such as gravity or centrifugal force .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by cultivated or anthropically maintained vegetation planted for recreation ,  erosion control ,  or aesthetic purposes interspersed by constructed or manufactured objects and materials .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by sedges or forbs ,  possibly interpersed with grasses or grass - like plants .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by gramanoid or herbaceous vegetation and which is not subject to intensive management by humans .
a hydrological process in which irregular aggregates of snow fall to a planetary surface .
an environmental system in which minimal to no anthropisation has occurred and non - human agents are the primary determinants of the system's dynamics and composition .
a process during which a natural environmental system is altered by human action .
a planet that is composed primarily of silicate rocks or metals .
a process whereby a volume of liquid moves due to a disequilibrium of physical forces .
a process during which a volume of water is transported due to a disequilibria in physical forces .
a part of an astronomical body which includes ,  as parts ,  all the entities which have been constructed or manufactured by humans or their technology and which are within the gravitational sphere of influence of that body .
a planned process during which raw or recycled materials are transformed into products for use or sale using labour and machines ,  tools ,  chemical and biological processing ,  or formulation .
an process during which natural or manufactured materials and products are processed and arranged by humans or their technology into structures .
an environmental system which is determined by materials bearing roughly homogeneous qualities .
an environmental system within which an environmental material strongly influences the system's composition and properties .
an environmental system which is determined by a living organism .
an environmental system determined by a green plant .
an environmental system determined by an animal .
a meteor is any matter -  or energy - based entity which is located in the atmosphere of an astronomical body .
a meteor which is primarily composed of water .
a meteor which is primarily composed of rock .
a lake which has formed as the result of processes that are not or are only minimally driven by human activity .
a process during which energy is emitted or transmitted in the form of waves or particles through space or a material medium .
a radiation process during which waves  ( or their quanta ,  photons )  of the electromagnetic field propagate  ( radiate )  through space carrying electromagnetic energy .
an environment which is determined by materials which bear significant concentrations of salts .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by soil .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by sediment .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by an aerosol .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a saline aerosol .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by an aerosol with a low concentration of dissolved solutes .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead animal ,  or a whole small animal .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead plant ,  or a whole small plant .
an astronomical body which is composed of rocky or metallic materials and is considerably smaller than asteroids .
a material which is composed primarily of one or more pure metals and which shows their properties .
a process during which microscopic solid or liquid objects are formed .
an aerosol formation process which occurs in an atmosphere .
a process during which an aerosol ,  consisting of solid particulates suspended in a gas ,  is formed in an atmosphere .
a process during which an aerosol ,  consisting of droplets of liquid suspended in gas ,  is formed in an atmosphere .
an aerosol which has non - gaseous parts that are primarily composed of liquid droplets .
an aerosol which has non - gaseous parts that are primarily composed of solid particles .
a process during which microscopic solid particulates are formed from gaseous materials in an atmosphere .
a process during which microscopic liquid droplets are formed from gaseous materials in an atmosphere .
an environmental system which includes both living and non - living components .
a planet which is primarily composed of hydrogen and helium .
an ice is an environmental material which is either frozen or which is maintained in a solid state by gravitational forces or pressure .
a terrestrial planet which has a surface dominated by hot deserts .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by water ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of water .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by ice ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of ice .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by lava ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of lava .
a gas planet which has an atmosphere composed primarily of helium .
a material which is composed primarily of chemical elements and compounds with relatively low boiling points ,  equilibrium condensation temperatures below 1300 kelvin ,  and which are part of the crust or atmosphere of a moon or planet .
an astrogeological volatile which is composed primarily of chemical compounds with boiling points around those of hydrogen and helium .
a quality which inheres in a astronomical body or astronomical body part by virtue of the variation in its material composition ,  participation in geological processes ,  and the variation in is land -  and hydroforms .
an environment which has its properties and composition largely determined by the presence of a metazoan which lacks a vetebral column and which has a habitat that is found in an aquatic environmental system .
the surface layer of a volume of water .
the surface layer of a mass of sediment .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a land mass or the atmosphere or space adjacent to it .
a terrestrial zone which is bounded by constructed ,  manufactured ,  or other anthropogenic material entities .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a marine environment .
a process during which sediments compact under pressure ,  expel connate fluids ,  and gradually become solid sedimentary rock .
an ecosystem in which grasses  ( graminae )  are the dominant form of vegetation and determine the system's structure and dynamics .
an electromagnetic radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star at wavelengths between 380 nm and 760 nm .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star at wavelengths between 10 nm and 400 nm .
a natural environment which is located on a land mass .
a natural environment which is within a water body .
a vegetation layer which is formed by a collection of individual plant crowns ,  themselves constituting part of the aboveground portion of a plant community .
an ecosystem which is determined by communities of plants with a tree growth form and in which members of those communities form continuous or discontinuous regions of canopy cover .
a layer which is primarily composed of some liquid material .
a layer which is primarily composed of some solid material ,  allowing for non - solid parts such as interstitial pockets of gas or liquid .
a solid layer which is primarily composed of some water - based ice .
dust which is composed primarily of slicon dioxide .
dust which is primarily composed of barium particles .
dust which is primarily composed of hydrated magnesium silicate  ( talc )  particles .
dust which is primarily composed of slate particles .
dust which is primarily composed of kaolinite particles .
a vegetated area which has not been cleared or is sparsely settled ,  usually scrub - covered or forested
an environmental zone which is part of an atmosphere .
a vegetated area is a geographic feature which has ground cover dominated by plant communities .
a geographic feature which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid water held in shape or sustained by an environmental process .
a liquid surface layer which is in contact with air .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of some liquid .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of solid environmental material .
a body of water which is primarily composed of saline water .
a material transport process during which a volume of material is displaced due to a disequilibrium in physical forces and during which 1 )  the qualities that inhere in that volume and 2 )  the processes that are unfolding within it are largely unchanged .
an action of exogenic processes  ( such as water flow or wind )  which remove environmental material from one location on the surface of an astronomical body ,  transporting it to another location where it is deposited .
a landform which has been rendered barren or partially barren by environmental extremes ,  especially by low rainfall .
a process during which particles suspended in a gaseous medium are formed .
a material transport process during which solid or liquid particles are directly introduced into a volume of gas .
an anthropisation process during which terrestrial environments  -  natural or anthropised  -  or parts thereof are altered to facilitate human activities such as agriculture ,  settlement ,  or commerce .
a process during which an ecosystem  -  natural or anthropised  -  is changed by the actions of humans .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of gaseous material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid or gaseous material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of an astronomical body comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
an electromagnetic radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a manufactured product .
a material transformation process during which a material's viscosity increase either through a reduction in temperature ,  through chemical reactions ,  or other physical effects .
land which is below the freezing point of water .
soil which is below the freezing point of water .
a material congelation process during which a liquid turns into a solid when its temperature is lowered below its melting point .
a freezing process during which liquid water is transformed into water ice .
a water surface that is part of a water body .
an ecoregion which is located on a landmass .
a surface layer of a water body which is part of an ocean or sea .
a layer which is part of a cryosphere .
permafrost which contains inclusions of water - based ice .
a material accumulation process during which the mass of snow on a surface increases .
a material accumulation process during which ice forms in an environmental material or an existing accumulation of ice increases in mass .
a material accumulation process during which a accumulation of snow and ice forms or increases in mass .
a object which is composed primarily of water - based snow and ice .
a process during which microscopic solid particulates are formed from liquid materials in an atmosphere .
that part of an atmosphere which is composed of gaseous material .
a solid material which does not have a regularly organised internal structure .
an aerosol that is suspended in an atmosphere .
a material transformation process during which solid or liquid particles form and are suspended in a mass of air ,  thus creating an aerosol .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of some liquid or gas .
a surface layer which separates two portions of fluid with respect to either 1 )  a discontinuity of some fluid property or 2 )  some derivative of one of these properties in a direction normal to the interface .
a layer which is composed primarily of some fluid .
a fluid interface which separates two fluid masses with differing properties .
a fluid front which is composed primarily of gaseous material and separates at least two gaseous masses .
a gaseous front which separates two masses of air with different densities and is a principal cause of meteorological phenomena .
an object which is composed of a continuous mass of air .
a fluid surface layer which is composed primarily of some gaseous material .
a layer which separates two portions of environmental material which possess 1 )  differing compositions ,  2 )  a discontinuity of some property ,  or 3 )  some derivative of some property in a direction normal to the interface .
an object which is composed primarily of an environmental material
an object which is composed primarily of a solid environmental material
an object which is composed primarily of a fluid .
an object which is composed primarily of a gas .
an object which is composed primarily of a liquid .
an mass of environmental materials which has appreciable quantities of several individual materials ,  such that the removal of one would convert the mass into a different entity .
a weather front which separates air masses of tropical and polar origin .
an ecosystem in which the composition ,  structure ,  and function of resident ecological assemblages are primarily determined by a desert .
a solid astronomical body part which is part of the landmass of that body .
a large continuous area of land ,  either surrounded by sea or contiguous with another landmass .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous medium bearing liquid ,  gaseous ,  and solid material in varying quantities .
a surface layer of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of solid material and is not covered by oceans or other bodies of water .
an environmental process either driven by or primarily impacting the parts or emergent properties of an ecosystem .
a material entity which has been assembled through the intentional ,  instinctual ,  or deliberately programmed efforts of an organism or machine .
an object which is formed as a result of one or more biological processes and is composed primarily of organic material .
a biome which is subject to alpine altitudinal conditions .
a biome which is subject to montane altitudinal conditions .
a biome which is subject to arid environmental conditions .
a process during which one entity loses energy to another entity .
a material accumulation process during which the volume of liquid entity increases .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in air that is part of an atmosphere .
a combustible black or brownish - black sedimentary rock usually occurring in rock strata in layers or veins called coal beds or coal seams .
dust which is derived from coal .
dust which is derived from mineral material .
dust which is composed of fibrous material .
dust which is composed primarily of some metallic material .
dust which is derived from clay material .
a liquid or a gas .
a process in which includes the components of an environmental system as participants .
a type of land degradation in which terrestrial ecosystem becomes increasingly dry ,  typically losing its bodies of water as well as vegetation and wildlife .
a process which occurs within an atmosphere .
a process which diminishes the functioning of an ecosystem located on land .
a process during which humans apply technology to alter the magnitude ,  duration ,  rate ,  or impact of an environmental process .
an environmental process which is driven by the action of humans .
an action of exogenic processes  ( such as water flow or wind )  which remove environmental material from one part of a planet's crust ,  transporting it to another location where it is deposited .
an environmental process which has water  -  in any of its states  -  as a participant .
a process during which the mass of one or more materials ,  present within a given site ,  increases .
a process during which material is displaced from its original location and transported either to a new location or back to the original location .
a depression which is part of a planetary crust ,  is of geographic scale ,  and is partially or completely enclosed .
sediment which has been transported through the marine water column ,  settling on the seafloor .
a material accumulation process during which solid particles are pulled through a water body by gravitation or centrifugal force and which ends when they settle on a solid surface .
a process during which a portion of some environmental material is converted into a different material or a collection of materials .
a geographic feature which is primarily composed of a continuous mass of snow and / or ice .
a mass of snow .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in soil .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in air .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in seawater .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of soil .
the amount of a carbon atom when measured in environmental material .
the amount of a carbon atom when measured in soil .
the amount of a carbon atom when measured in water .
the concentration of a carbon atom when measured in environmental material .
the concentration of a carbon atom when measured in soil .
the concentration of a carbon atom when measured in water .
the amount of a nitrogen atom when measured in environmental material .
the amount of a nitrogen atom when measured in soil .
the amount of a nitrogen atom when measured in water .
the concentration of a nitrogen atom when measured in environmental material .
the concentration of a nitrogen atom when measured in soil .
the concentration of a nitrogen atom when measured in water .
the concentration of a chloride when measured in water .
the temperature of some environmental material .
the temperature of some air .
the porosity of some soil .
the composition of some soil .
the structure of some soil .
the pressure of some air .
the temperature of some soil .
the wetness of some soil .
the temperature of some water .
the composition of some water .
an environment which is determined by an anatomical entity .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted at wavelengths between 380 nm and 760 nm .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted at wavelengths between 10 nm and 400 nm .
the concentration of dioxygen when measured in liquid water .
the pressure of some water .
food material for humans and animals which is processed with the intention that it be consumable as a whole or added to other food products .
this food product type includes food products which are derived from or produced by a plant .
a seafood product is a vertebrate or invertibrate organism from an aquatic environment .
a food product which is derived from or produced by an animal that has a vertibrae .
a food product consisting of an edible fungi or mushroom or yeast .
a food product derived from one or more microorganisms including bacteria ,  mold ,  and yeast .
food product that is 1 )  ready or nearly ready for consumption ;  2 )  usually a composite of several foods or ingredients that often belong to distinct product types ;  3 )  usually formulated ,  mixed and partially or fully cooked .
this food product type includes food products which are derived from a large ,  diverse group of photosynthetic organisms .
a fish food product includes products made from any fish species  ( aquatic vertebrate with gills and fins )  .
a dairy food product has mammilian milk or a milk component as an ingredient .
mature ovary of a plant ,  with a fleshy part of the carpel that develops with the seed to attract animals for aid in dispersal .
a food product consisting of food material derived primarily from a single organism .
any substance that can be consumed by an organism to satisfy nutritional or other health needs ,  or to provide a social or organoleptic food experience
a process involving the physical transformation of a food source or food product into some derived organic material or food product
invertebrates are animals that neither possess nor develop a vertebral column  ( commonly known as a backbone or spine )  ,  derived from the notochord .
a class which contains food product categories qualified by a quality such as granularity or temperature ,  which is useful for tasks like food inspection where little prior knowledge of how the food came to be is available .
dairy cattle are a type of cattle bred for the ability to produce large quantities of milk ,  from which dairy products are made .
taurine cattle  ( bos taurus taurus )  ,  also called european cattle ,  are a subspecies of domesticated cattle originating in the near east .
an aquatic invertebrate may live entirely beneath the water ,  or may live upon its surface or on the plants surrounding it .
a food product organized by the process which it results from .
a multicellular eukaryotic heterotrophic organism within the kingdom animalia .
a food product not including meat and animal tissue products  ( such as gelatin or animal - derived rennet )  .
a process which takes in some food material from an individual or community of plant or animal organisms in a given context and time ,  and outputs a precursor or consumable food product .
organic food material that has been harvested .
organic food material which has not reached harvestable maturity .
peeling" is the process of removing the outer covering ,  layer or skin from a fruit ,  vegetable ,  or plant or animal  ( such as a shrimp )  .
breast milk is the milk produced by the breasts  ( or mammary glands )  of a human female to feed a child .
extract ,  concentrate or isolate derived from a food source through one or more refining steps  ( see *extract ,  concentrate or isolate of plant or animal* )  and marketed as such .
milk in all forms ,  milk - based beverage ,  cultured milk product ,  or milk or milk product analog .
milk ,  a product derived from milk ,  or a dairy product analog ;  includes cheese and frozen dairy desserts .
food product that is 1 )  ready or nearly ready for consumption ;  2 )  usually a composite of several foods or ingredients that often belong to distinct product types ;  3 )  usually formulated ,  mixed and partially or fully cooked .
products of the flesh of animals .
nuts in all forms ,  including nut butters and pastes .
flesh from fish or shellfish .
food group having common consumption ,  functional or manufacturing characteristics ,  e .g .
renamed from *product type ,  codex alimentarius* in langual 2008 .
an agency food product type is a class of food product defined by an agency or consortium .
codex alimentarius ,  volume 2  -  1993 ,  section 2:  pesticide residues in food .
type 04   -   nuts and seeds  nuts and seeds are derived from a large variety of trees ,  shrubs and herbaceous plants ,  mostly cultivated .
tree nuts are the seeds of a variety of trees and shrubs which are characterized by a hard inedible shell enclosing an oily seed .
food and drugs ,  title 21 ,  code of federal regulations .
an aquatic animal is an animal ,  either vertebrate or invertebrate ,  which lives in the water for most or all of its lifetime .
any chemical or chemical mixture that exists in a food material or was added to a food material .
shellfish is a food source and fisheries term for exoskeleton - bearing aquatic invertebrates used as food ,  including various species of molluscs ,  crustaceans ,  and echinoderms .
*penaeidae* is a family of marine crustacean in the suborder *dendrobranchiata* ,  which are often referred to as penaeid shrimp or penaeid prawn .
mammals  ( from latin mamma "breast" )  are vertebrate animals constituting the class mammalia ,  and characterized by the presence of mammary glands which in females produce milk for feeding  ( nursing )  their young ,  a neocortex  ( a region of the brain )  ,  fur or hair ,  and three middle ear bones .
aquatic animals other than fish and shellfish
a dairy cow is an adult female member of a dairy cattle breed
fish are the gill - bearing aquatic craniate animals that lack limbs with digits .
a member of the group of eukaryotic organisms in the kingdom fungi that includes unicellular microorganisms such as yeasts and molds ,  as well as multicellular fungi that produce familiar fruiting forms known as mushrooms .
a vertebrate animal is any species of organism within the subphylum vertebrata  ( chordates with backbones )  .
an informal term for a large ,  diverse group of photosynthetic eukaryotic organisms that are not necessarily closely related ,  and is thus polyphyletic .
wheat  ( *triticum* spp . ) 
any grass cultivated  ( grown )  for the edible components of its grain .
crabs are decapod crustaceans of the infraorder *brachyura* ,  which typically have a very short projecting "tail" ,  usually entirely hidden under the thorax .
crustaceans form a large ,  diverse arthropod taxon which includes such familiar animals as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimp ,  krill ,  woodlice ,  and barnacles .
the term shellfish is used both broadly and specifically .
this is a hierarchy of organisms ,  grouped minimally in a combination of taxonomy and consumer - oriented food groups .
the decapoda or decapods  ( literally "ten - footed" )  are an order of crustaceans within the class malacostraca ,  including many familiar groups ,  such as crayfish ,  crabs ,  lobsters ,  prawns ,  and shrimp .
*mollusca* is a large phylum of invertebrate animals whose members are known as molluscs or mollusks .
echinoderm is the common name given to any member of the phylum *echinodermata* of marine animals .
mud crab may refer to any crab that lives in or near mud ,  such as: species from family *portunidae* ,  such as *scylla serrata* ;  *scylla tranquebarica* ;  *scylla paramamosain* ;  members of the family *panopeidae* ,  such as *panopeus herbstii* ;  members of the family *xanthidae* ;  *helice crassa* ,  the tunnelling mud crab .
a composite organism that arises from algae or cyanobacteria living among filaments of multiple fungi species in a mutualistic relationship .
*coelenterata* is an obsolete term encompassing the animal phyla *cnidaria*  ( coral animals ,  true jellies ,  sea anemones ,  sea pens ,  and their allies )  and *ctenophora*  ( comb jellies )  .
a female goat
a young goat
the biological subfamily *bovinae* includes a diverse group of 10 genera of medium -  to large - sized ungulates ,  including domestic cattle ,  the bison ,  african buffalo ,  the water buffalo ,  the yak ,  and the four - horned and spiral - horned antelopes .
a bovid  ( family *bovidae* )  is any of almost 140 species of cloven - hoofed ,  ruminant mammal which has males with characteristic unbranching horns covered in a permanent sheath of keratin .
tunicates ,  previously known as *urochordata* or urochordates ,  are members of the *tunicata* ,  a subphylum of the phylum *chordata* .
a broad term that includes milk and its components ,  cream ,  curd and whey ;  use the appropriate specific term when milk or a milk product is the principal ingredient .
anatomical part of the plant or animal from which a food product or its major ingredient is derived .
bone ,  feathers ,  shell ,  skin or trim fat .
includes carcass meat ,  organ meat ,  and nonmeat parts of animals ,  as well as the whole animal .
the parts of a plant that are not fruit or seed .
the main propagative part of a plant ,  especially the kernel of a grain or nut .
anatomical part of an animal ;  includes eggs and milk that ,  although separated from the animal ,  are produced as integral parts and are affected by the animal's food intake and metabolism .
the fleshy fruit of any plant .
anatomical part of a plant ,  such as fruit ,  seed ,  pod ,  leaf ,  stem or flower as well as the whole plant .
extract ,  concentrate or isolate high in gluten ,  the predominant protein of wheat or corn .
poultry ,  game bird or turtle eggs .
a physical - chemical component separated from the food source or its parts by extraction ,  centrifugation ,  filtration ,  heat processing ,  expressing or a similar process .
extract ,  concentrate or isolate high in protein ;  may contain amino acids ,  polypeptides and enzymes .
the pigmented blossom of a plant that contains the reproductive  organs ;  a floret is a single flower of a multiple flowered inflorescence .
the hard ,  central part of an apple ,  pear ,  etc . ,  that contains the seeds  ( source: webster's ) 
the rind or skin of fruit
the part of a flowering plant that typically contains the embryo with its protective coat and stored food and that can develop into a new plant under the proper conditions ;  fertilised and mature ovule  ( source: webster's )  .
a pollen - bearing organ in a flower ,  made up of a slender stalk  ( filament )  and a pollen sac  ( anther )   ( webster's ) 
the physical state of the food product  ( liquid ,  semiliquid ,  semisolid ,  or solid )  .
a state of matter between a solid and a gas ,  in which a substance has the capacity to flow and conforms to the shape of the container .
refers to natural or formed shape as appropriate ,  regardless of size ,  which may vary from very large  ( e .g . ,  beef carcass )  to very small  ( e .g . ,  poppy seed ,  yeast cell )  .
used to specifically characterize a food product based on the treatment or processes applied to the product or any indexed ingredient .
a food modification process where physical or chemical changes are effected in any food ingredient through a physical or non - enzymatic chemical process .
a food consumer group is a class of organism based on their heterotrophic requirements or preferences .
the maintenance of the structure and integrity of the mitochondrial genome ;  includes replication and segregation of the mitochondrial chromosome .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination ,  a dna metabolic process in which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
the directed movement of transition metal ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the sequence of reactions by which arginine is synthesized from ornithine ,  then cleaved to yield urea and regenerate ornithine .
the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the mitotic cell cycle .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing sulfur ,  comprising cysteine ,  homocysteine ,  methionine and selenocysteine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids containing sulfur ,  comprising cysteine ,  methionine and selenocysteine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase ii .
catalysis of the reaction: 4 - n -  ( n - acetyl - d - glucosaminyl )  - protein  +  h2o = n - acetyl - beta - d - glucosaminylamine  +  peptide l - aspartate .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a chromosome that encodes the nuclear genome and is found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell during the cell cycle phases when the nucleus is intact .
a chromosome found in the cytoplasm .
a chromosome found in the mitochondrion of a eukaryotic cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
progression through the phases of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the most common eukaryotic cell cycle ,  which canonically comprises four successive phases called g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  and m and includes replication of the genome and the subsequent segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells .
the division of a cell nucleus into two nuclei ,  with dna and other nuclear contents distributed between the daughter nuclei .
a ribosome contained within a subcellular membrane - bounded organelle .
a vacuole that is maintained at an acidic ph and which contains degradative enzymes ,  including a wide variety of acid hydrolases .
the end of a linear chromosome ,  required for the integrity and maintenance of the end .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome .
a dispersed and relatively uncompacted form of chromatin .
a compact and highly condensed form of chromatin .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
the developmental process in which the size or shape of a cell is generated and organized .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs when relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome and occurring in the mitochondrion .
the conversion of a primary rna molecule transcribed from a mitochondrial genome into one or more mature rna molecules ;  occurs in the mitochondrion .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific sequence of dna that is part of a regulatory region that controls transcription of that section of the dna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific sequence of dna that is part of a regulatory region that controls the transcription of a gene or cistron by rna polymerase ii .
a dna - binding transcription factor activity that modulates the transcription of specific gene sets transcribed by rna polymerase ii .
obsolete .interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  ,  in order to modulate transcription .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nucleic acid region that regulates a nucleic acid - based process .
a dna - binding transcription factor activity that activates or increases transcription of specific gene sets .
a dna - binding transcription factor activity that represses or decreases the transcription of specific gene sets .
a dna - binding transcription factor activity that represses or decreases the transcription of specific gene sets transcribed by rna polymerase ii .
a dna - binding transcription factor activity that activates or increases transcription of specific gene sets transcribed by rna polymerase ii .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skeleton over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that modulates levels of neurotransmitter .
a process in which membrane potential cycles through a depolarizing spike ,  triggered in response to depolarization above some threshold ,  followed by repolarization .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving retinoids ,  any member of a class of isoprenoids that contain or are derived from four prenyl groups linked head - to - tail .
cell motility due to movement of eukaryotic cilia or bacterial - type flagella or archaeal - type flagella .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a blood vessel over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the differentiation of endothelial cells from progenitor cells during blood vessel development ,  and the de novo formation of blood vessels and tubes .
a process that results in a parallel arrangement of microtubules .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an osteoblast ,  a mesodermal or neural crest cell that gives rise to bone .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the eye over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
cell migration that is accomplished by extension and retraction of a pseudopodium .
the formation of the acrosome from the spermatid golgi .
formation of a complex between aminoacylated initiator methionine trna ,  gtp ,  and initiation factor 2  ( either eif2 in eukaryotes ,  or if2 in prokaryotes )  .
a cellular homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glucose within a cell or between a cell and its external environment .
the characteristic movement of cells from the dorsal ridge of the neural tube to a variety of locations in a vertebrate embryo .
the characteristic movement of an immature neuron from germinal zones to specific positions where they will reside as they mature .
the change in morphology and behavior of a dendritic cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
an inflammatory response resulting from recognition of immune complexes via complement or fc receptors on effector cells leading to activation of neutrophils and other leukocytes and damage to bystander tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type iii hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of type iii hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of type iii hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
an inflammatory response driven by t cell recognition of processed soluble or cell - associated antigens leading to cytokine release and leukocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type iv hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of type iv hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of type iv hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type i hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of type i hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of type i hypersensitivity ,  a type of inflammatory response .
the appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of a cytokine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of production of a cytokine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of production of a cytokine .
the regulated release of serotonin by a cell .
the regulated release of histamine by a cell or tissue .
the morphogenesis of an embryonic epithelium into a tube - shaped structure .
the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
the last step in the formation of the neural tube ,  where the paired neural folds are brought together and fuse at the dorsal midline .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any component or product of the complement cascade .
any process involved in the activation of any of the steps of the lectin pathway of the complement cascade which allows for the direct killing of microbes and the regulation of other immune processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the lectin pathway of complement activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of complement activation by the lectin pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of complement activation by the lectin pathway .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds that contain selenium ,  such as selenocysteine .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state within a defined tissue of an organism ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of its own cells or those of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
the directed killing of a target cell by a leukocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into an amino acid in a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the hair follicle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the vasculature over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
an action or movement due to the application of a sudden unexpected stimulus .
the process in which the anatomical structures of epithelia are generated and organized .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the phosphorylation of adp to atp that accompanies the oxidation of a metabolite through the operation of the respiratory chain .
a process carried out by the nervous system that is required for the proper control of respiratory gaseous exchange .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the lens over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the lens are generated and organized .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein in the cytoplasm .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis in the cytoplasm .
the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in the cytoplasm .
the process resulting in the release of a polypeptide chain from the ribosome in the cytoplasm ,  usually in response to a termination codon .
the somatic process allowing for the production of immune receptors whose specificity is not encoded in the germline genomic sequences .
the process in which immunoglobulin genes are formed through recombination of the germline genetic elements ,  also known as immunoglobulin gene segments ,  within a single locus following the induction of and contributing to an immune response .
the somatic process that results in the generation of sequence diversity of immunoglobulins after induction ,  and contributes to an immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide production .
the promotion of an immune response by natural killer cells through direct recognition of target cells or through the release of cytokines .
the movement of an immune cell in response to an external stimulus contributing to an inflammatory response .
the movement of an immune cell in response to an external stimulus a part of an immune response .
the process in which precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a hematopoietic progenitor cell ,  a class of cell types including myeloid progenitor cells and lymphoid progenitor cells .
the series of events that restore integrity to damaged tissue that contribute to an inflammatory response .
an immune response mediated by cells expressing specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process ,  and allowing for an enhanced secondary response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
any process of the immune system that can potentially contribute to an immune response .
any process that initiates an immune response .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of myeloid cells such that the total number of myeloid cells within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an inflammatory response .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a myeloid leukocyte resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a myeloid cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a myeloid dendritic cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mast cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  soluble factor ,  or to  ( at least in mammals )  an antigen which the mast cell has specifically bound via ige bound to fc - epsilonri receptors ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in morphology and behavior of a macrophage resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the process in which an immature myeloid dendritic cell acquires the specialized features of a mature myeloid dendritic cell as part of an immune response .
a change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the process in which an antigenically naive t cell acquires the specialized features of an effector ,  regulatory ,  or memory t cell as part of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature b cell during an immune response ,  resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the process in which a naive b cell acquires the specialized features of a mature or memory b cell during an immune response .
the process in which transitional stage b cells acquire the specialized features of mature b cells in the spleen .
the process dependent upon b cell antigen receptor signaling in response to self or foreign antigen through which b cells are selected for survival .
any b cell selection process that occurs in the periphery .
the process in which b cells produce antibodies with increased antigen affinity .
the synthesis or release of histamine following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of serotonin following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus contributing to an immune response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
the appearance of immunoglobulin due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of immunoglobulin due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus during an immune response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of a cell capable of activating or perpetuating an immune response .
a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a component of the complement pathway binding to a complement receptor .
an immune response - regulating cell surface receptor signaling pathway that contributes to the endocytic engulfment of external particulate material by phagocytes .
an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus ,  which can be include any number of t cell or b cell epitopes .
an acute inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
the synthesis or release of any molecular mediator of the immune response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the regulated release of histamine by a cell as part of an inflammatory response .
the regulated release of serotonin by a cell as part of an inflammatory response .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a leukocyte .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a myeloid leukocyte .
an inflammatory response resulting in cell death or dysfunction mediated by activation of the classical complement pathway or induction of effector cell phagocytosis ,  cytolysis mechanisms via complement or fc receptors following the binding of antibodies to cell surface antigens on a target cell ,  or mediated by the direct binding of antibody to cellular receptors .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a lymphocyte .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a t cell .
an immune response mediated by lymphocytes expressing specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process that includes somatic recombination of germline gene segments encoding immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
tolerance induction dependent upon an immune response ,  typically a response by a mature t or b cell in the periphery resulting tolerance towards an antigen via induction of anergy ,  cellular deletion ,  or regulatory t cell activation .
tolerance induction in the peripheral lymphoid tissues: blood ,  lymph nodes ,  spleen ,  and mucosal - associated lymphoid tissues .
the process in which an antigen - presenting cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or polysaccharide )  on its cell surface in association with an mhc class ii protein complex .
a process that directly activates any of the steps required for tolerance ,  a physiologic state in which the immune system does not react destructively against the components of an organism that harbors it or against antigens that are introduced to it .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system whose objective is to provide calibrated responses by an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat ,  over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized hemopoietic precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a leukocyte .
the movement of a leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body as part of an immune response .
the movement of a leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body contributing to an inflammatory response .
an inflammatory response to an exogenous environmental antigen or an endogenous antigen initiated by the adaptive immune system .
inflammation which comprises a rapid ,  short - lived ,  relatively uniform response to acute injury or antigenic challenge and is characterized by accumulations of fluid ,  plasma proteins ,  and granulocytic leukocytes .
the synthesis or release of any molecular mediator of the inflammatory response following an inflammatory stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of a cytokine following a inflammatory stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of products of arachidonic acid metabolism following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in their intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of any prostaglandin following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the process in which immune receptor genes are diversified through recombination of the germline genetic elements within a single genetic locus .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of any cell of the myeloid leukocyte lineage .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a thrombocyte ,  a nucleated cell found in all vertebrates but mammals involved in hemostasis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of antigen  ( peptide or polysaccharide )  via mhc class ii .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of antigen  ( peptide or polysaccharide )  via mhc class ii .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of antigen  ( peptide or polysaccharide )  via mhc class ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of immunoglobulin production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of immunoglobulin production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of immunoglobulin production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction dependent upon immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction dependent upon immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction dependent upon immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peripheral tolerance induction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peripheral tolerance induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peripheral tolerance induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte chemotaxis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte chemotaxis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte chemotaxis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine production that contributes to an immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine production contributing to an immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine production that contributes to an immune response .
the cascade of processes by which a signal interacts with a receptor ,  causing a change in the level or activity of a second messenger or other downstream target ,  and ultimately leading to activation or perpetuation of an immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an antimicrobial humoral response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an antimicrobial humoral response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
the cascade of processes by which a signal interacts with a receptor ,  causing a change in the level or activity of a second messenger or other downstream target ,  and ultimately leading to the activation ,  perpetuation ,  or inhibition of an immune response .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of the target cell capable of activating ,  perpetuating ,  or inhibiting an immune response .
the synthesis or release of an antimicrobial peptide during an immune response ,  resulting in an increase in intracellular or extracellular levels .
the regulated release of an antimicrobial peptide from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide production .
the controlled release of a peptide from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a t - helper 1 type immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a t - helper 1 type immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a t - helper 1 type immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a type 2 immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a type 2 immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a type 2 immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of hypersensitivity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of hypersensitivity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of hypersensitivity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type ii hypersensitivity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type ii hypersensitivity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type ii hypersensitivity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response .
a developmental process in which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism specifically contributes to its ability to form offspring .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the circulatory system .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the renal system .
a circulatory system process carried out by the heart .
a process carried out by the organs or tissues of the respiratory system .
a circulatory process that occurs at the level of the vasculature .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix ,  including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell or a group of cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix ,  including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell or a group of cells .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix ,  including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell or a group of cells .
the process in which an amino acid is transported across a membrane .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another and contributes to the physical shaping or formation of the camera - type eye .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any nucleic acid .
any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively and non - covalently with dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with double - stranded dna .
a transcription regulator activity that modulates transcription of gene sets via selective and non - covalent binding to a specific double - stranded genomic dna sequence  ( sometimes referred to as a motif )  within a cis - regulatory region .
combining with a steroid hormone and transmitting the signal within the cell to initiate a change in cell activity or function .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an rna molecule or a portion thereof .
catalysis of the reaction: protein glutamine  +  alkylamine = protein n5 - alkylglutamine  +  nh3 .
a physical quality inhering in a catalyst by virtue of the amount of the catalyst's action .
catalysis of the reaction: 1 - pyrroline - 5 - carboxylate  +  nad +   +  h2o = l - glutamate  +  nadh  +  h (  +  )  .
catalysis of the reaction: an 11 - beta - hydroxysteroid  +  nad ( p )  +  = an 11 - oxosteroid  +  nad ( p ) h  +  h (  +  )  .
catalysis of the reaction: 4 - aminobutanoate  +  amino group acceptor = succinate semialdehyde  +  amino acid .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  d - fructose - 6 - phosphate = adp  +  d - fructose 1 , 6 - bisphosphate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of alpha - l - iduronosidic linkages in dermatan sulfate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of the 4 - sulfate groups of the n - acetyl - d - galactosamine 4 - sulfate units of chondroitin sulfate and dermatan sulfate .
catalysis of the reaction: acyl - coa  +  acceptor = 2 , 3 - dehydroacyl - coa  +  reduced acceptor .
catalysis of the reaction: adenosine  +  h2o = inosine  +  nh3 .
catalysis of the reaction: an aldehyde  +  nad +   +  h2o = an acid  +  nadh  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: an aldehyde  +  nad ( p )  +   +  h2o = an acid  +  nad ( p ) h  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: an n - acyl - l - amino acid  +  h2o = a carboxylate  +  an l - amino acid .
catalysis of the reaction: acetyl - coa  +  carnitine =  ( r )  - o - acetylcarnitine  +  coa .
catalysis of the reaction: nadp +   +  5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydropteridine = nadph  +  h +   +  6 , 7 - dihydropteridine .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a single n - terminal amino acid residue from a polypeptide chain .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue  ( e .g .
catalysis of the reaction: d - fructose 1 , 6 - bisphosphate = glycerone phosphate  +  d - glyceraldehyde - 3 - phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: d - galactosyl - n - acylsphingosine  +  h2o = d - galactose  +  n - acylsphingosine .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked alpha - d - glucose residues successively from non - reducing ends of the chains with release of beta - d - glucose .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glucose 6 - phosphate  +  nadp +  = d - glucono - 1 , 5 - lactone 6 - phosphate  +  nadph  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glucopyranose 6 - phosphate  +  h2o = d - glucose  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glucose 6 - phosphate = d - fructose 6 - phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glucosyl - n - acylsphingosine  +  h2o = d - glucose  +  n - acylsphingosine .
catalysis of the reaction: l - glutamate = 4 - aminobutanoate  +  co2 .
catalysis of the reaction: l - cysteine  +  l - glutamate  +  atp = l - gamma - glutamyl - l - cysteine  +  adp  +  2 h (  +  )   +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: l - gamma - glutamyl - l - cysteine  +  atp  +  glycine = adp  +  glutathione  +  2 h (  +  )   +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  glycerol = sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate  +  adp  +  2 h (  +  )  .
catalysis of the random hydrolysis of  ( 1 -  > 4 )  linkages between n - acetyl - beta - d - glucosamine and d - glucuronate residues in hyaluronate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of the 2 - sulfate groups of the l - iduronate 2 - sulfate units of dermatan sulfate ,  heparan sulfate and heparin .
catalysis of the reaction: lactate  +  nad +  = h +   +  nadh  +  pyruvate .
catalysis of the reaction: acyl - coa  +  etf = 2 , 3 - dehydroacyl - coa  +  reduced etf .
catalysis of the reaction: 3 - methylbut - 2 - enoyl - coa  +  atp  +  bicarbonate = trans - 3 - methylglutaconyl - coa  +  adp  +  2 h (  +  )   +  phosphate .
catalysis of the incorporation of one atom from molecular oxygen into a compound and the reduction of the other atom of oxygen to water .
catalysis of the reaction: a c ( 21 )  steroid  +   [ reduced nadph -  - hemoprotein reductase ]   +  o ( 2 )  = a 21 - hydroxy - c ( 21 )  - steroid  +   [ oxidized nadph -  - hemoprotein reductase ]   +  h ( 2 ) o .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any o - glycosyl bond .
catalysis of the reaction: alpha , alpha - trehalose  +  h2o = 2 d - glucose .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal ,  non - reducing alpha - d - galactose residues in alpha - d - galactosides ,  including galactose oligosaccharides ,  galactomannans and galactohydrolase .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal ,  non - reducing alpha - d - mannose residues in alpha - d - mannosides .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal non - reducing n - acetyl - d - glucosamine residues in n - acetyl - alpha - d - glucosaminides .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal non - reducing n - acetyl - d - hexosamine residues in n - acetyl - beta - d - hexosaminides .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal ,  non - reducing beta - d - galactose residues in beta - d - galactosides .
catalysis of the reaction: a beta - d - glucuronoside  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  d - glucuronate .
catalysis of the reaction: donor  +  hydrogen peroxide = oxidized donor  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 glutathione  +  hydrogen peroxide = oxidized glutathione  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: alpha - d - glucose 1 - phosphate = alpha - d - glucose 6 - phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: 3 - phospho - d - glycerate  +  atp = 3 - phospho - d - glyceroyl phosphate  +  adp  +  h (  +  )  .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 - phospho - d - glycerate = 3 - phospho - d - glycerate .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 - phospho - d - glycerate = phosphoenolpyruvate  +  h2o .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of an amino acid residue in a protein ,  usually according to the reaction: a protein  +  atp = a phosphoprotein  +  adp .
catalysis of the reactions: atp  +  protein serine = adp  +  protein serine phosphate ,  and atp  +  protein threonine = adp  +  protein threonine phosphate .
calmodulin - dependent catalysis of the reactions: atp  +  a protein serine = adp  +  protein serine phosphate ;  and atp  +  a protein threonine = adp  +  protein threonine phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: 4 atp  +  2 phosphorylase b = 4 adp  +  phosphorylase a .
catalysis of the reaction: a 2 - oxo acid = an aldehyde  +  co2 .
catalysis of the reaction: = adp  +  h (  +  )   +  phosphoenolpyruvate = >  atp  +  pyruvate .
catalysis of the reaction: d - ribose 5 - phosphate  +  atp = 5 - phospho - alpha - d - ribose 1 - diphosphate  +  amp  +  2 h (  +  )  .
catalysis of the reaction: 7 , 8 - dihydrobiopterin  +  nadp +  = sepiapterin  +  nadph  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: l - serine  +  h (  +  )   +  palmitoyl - coa = 3 - dehydrosphinganine  +  co ( 2 )   +  coa .
catalysis of the reaction: 3 - beta - hydroxyandrost - 5 - en - 17 - one 3 - sulfate  +  h2o = 3 - beta - hydroxyandrost - 5 - en - 17 - one  +  sulfate .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glyceraldehyde 3 - phosphate = glycerone phosphate .
obsolete .conveys a signal across a cell to trigger a change in cell function or state .
combining with any component or product of the complement cascade and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity .
a dna - binding transcription factor activity regulated by binding to a ligand that modulates the transcription of specific gene sets transcribed by rna polymerase ii .
combining with an extracellular or intracellular signal and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity or state as part of signal transduction .
combining with a cytokine and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when glutamate has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
an cation channel that opens in response to binding by extracellular glutmate ,  but only if glycine is also bound and the membrane is depolarized .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
the activity of a soluble extracellular gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor to control the survival ,  growth ,  differentiation and effector function of tissues and cells .
the action characteristic of a hormone ,  any substance formed in very small amounts in one specialized organ or group of cells and carried  ( sometimes in the bloodstream )  to another organ or group of cells in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory action .
the action characteristic of gonadotropin hormone - releasing hormone  ( gnrh )  ,  any of a family of decapeptide amide hormones that are released by the hypothalamus in response to neural and / or chemical stimuli .
enables the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells .
enables the facilitated diffusion of an ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  by passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific extracellular ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific extracellular ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts ,  where channel opening contributes to an increase in membrane potential .
a wide pore channel activity that enables a direct cytoplasmic connection from one cell to an adjacent cell .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a voltage - gated channel .
enables the energy - independent passage of cations across a lipid bilayer down a concentration gradient .
enables the facilitated diffusion of a calcium ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  involving passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
enables the transfer of organic acids from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of the hexose monosaccharide glucose from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of iron  ( fe )  ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a steroid ,  any of a large group of substances that have in common a ring system based on 1 , 2 - cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any androgen ,  male sex hormones .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with vitamin d ,  any of a group of related ,  fat - soluble compounds that are derived from delta - 5 , 7 steroids and play a central role in calcium metabolism .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with collagen ,  a group of fibrous proteins of very high tensile strength that form the main component of connective tissue in animals .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
a protein complex produced by sequentially activated components of the complement cascade inserted into a target cell membrane and forming a pore leading to cell lysis via ion and water flow .
a protein complex consisting of three collagen chains assembled into a left - handed triple helix .
any triple helical collagen trimer that forms fibrils .
a collagen homotrimer of alpha1 ( ii )  chains ;  type ii collagen triple helices associate to form fibrils .
a collagen heterotrimer containing type vi alpha chains in alpha1 ( vi ) alpha2 ( vi ) alpha3 ( vi )  trimers ;  type vi collagen triple helices associate to form beaded fibrils .
a collagen heterotrimer containing type xi alpha chains in alpha1 ( xi ) alpha2 ( xi ) alpha3 ( xi )  trimers ;  type xi collagen triple helices associate to form fibrils .
a collagen trimer that associates with collagen fibrils and consists of collagen monomers that contain two or more relatively short triple - helical domains connected by non - triple - helical sequences .
a collagen heterotrimer containing type ix alpha chains in alpha1 ( ix ) alpha2 ( ix ) alpha3 ( ix )  trimers ;  type ix collagen triple helices associate to form a structure that links glycosaminoglycans to type ii collagen fibrils .
a collagen - containing extracellular matrix consisting of a thin layer of dense material found in various animal tissues interposed between the cells and the adjacent connective tissue .
that part of a multicellular organism outside the cells proper ,  usually taken to be outside the plasma membranes ,  and occupied by fluid .
a component of a cell contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane .
obsolete .the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the fibrous ,  electron - dense layer lying on the nucleoplasmic side of the inner membrane of a cell nucleus ,  composed of lamin filaments .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
obsolete .heterochromatic regions of the chromosome found at the telomeres of a chromosome in the nucleus .
a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the mitochondrion and separating its contents from the cell cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of the mitochondrial envelope .
the protein complexes that form the mitochondrial electron transport system  ( the respiratory chain )  ,  associated with the inner mitochondrial membrane .
a protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that forms part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
a protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that forms part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
a proton - transporting atp synthase complex found in the mitochondrial membrane .
the gel - like material ,  with considerable fine structure ,  that lies in the matrix space ,  or lumen ,  of a mitochondrion .
a ribosome found in the mitochondrion of a eukaryotic cell ;  contains a characteristic set of proteins distinct from those of cytosolic ribosomes .
a small lytic vacuole that has cell cycle - independent morphology and is found in most animal cells and that contains a variety of hydrolases ,  most of which have their maximal activities in the ph range 5 - 6 .
a lysosome before it has fused with a vesicle or vacuole .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
the volume enclosed within the vacuolar membrane .
a small organelle enclosed by a single membrane ,  and found in most eukaryotic cells .
a membrane - bound cytoplasmic organelle of the endomembrane system that further processes the core oligosaccharides  ( e .g .
the part of the cytoplasm that does not contain organelles but which does contain other particulate matter ,  such as protein complexes .
an intracellular organelle ,  about 200 a in diameter ,  consisting of rna and protein .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
the component of the plasma membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
a membrane raft that forms small pit ,  depression ,  or invagination that communicates with the outside of a cell and extends inward ,  indenting the cytoplasm and the cell membrane .
a cell junction that forms a connection between two or more cells in a multicellular organism ;  excludes direct cytoplasmic intercellular bridges ,  such as ring canals in insects .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface and of some cytoplasmic parts .
the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
complex that carries out the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate to form acetyl - coa in eukaryotes ;  includes subunits possessing three catalytic activities: pyruvate dehydrogenase  ( e1 )  ,  dihydrolipoamide s - acetyltransferase  ( e2 )  ,  and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase  ( e3 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen ,  a polydisperse ,  highly branched glucan composed of chains of d - glucose residues in alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  glycosidic linkage ,  joined together by alpha -  ( 1 -  > 6 )  glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any disaccharide ,  sugars composed of two monosaccharide units .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monosaccharides ,  the simplest carbohydrates .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fructose ,  the ketohexose arabino - 2 - hexulose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucose ,  the aldohexose gluco - hexose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving galactose ,  the aldohexose galacto - hexose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aminoglycans ,  any polymer containing amino groups that consists of more than about 10 monosaccharide residues joined to each other by glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aminoglycans ,  any polymer containing amino groups that consists of more than about 10 monosaccharide residues joined to each other by glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycosaminoglycans ,  any of a group of polysaccharides that contain amino sugars .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycerol ,  1 , 2 , 3 - propanetriol ,  a sweet ,  hygroscopic ,  viscous liquid ,  widely distributed in nature as a constituent of many lipids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucans ,  polysaccharides consisting only of glucose residues ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyruvate ,  2 - oxopropanoate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
the formation of glucose from noncarbohydrate precursors ,  such as pyruvate ,  amino acids and glycerol .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a carbohydrate into pyruvate ,  with the concomitant production of a small amount of atp and the reduction of nad ( p )  to nad ( p ) h . glycolysis begins with the metabolism of a carbohydrate to generate products that can enter the pathway and ends with the production of pyruvate .
a nearly universal metabolic pathway in which the acetyl group of acetyl coenzyme a is effectively oxidized to two co2 and four pairs of electrons are transferred to coenzymes .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving citrate ,  2 - hydroxy - 1 , 2 , 3 - propanetricarboyxlate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gluconeogenesis ,  the formation of glucose from noncarbohydrate precursors ,  such as pyruvate ,  amino acids and glycerol .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which a cell derives energy from stored compounds such as fats or glycogen .
the phosphorylation of adp to atp that accompanies the oxidation of a metabolite through the operation of the respiratory chain .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purines .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyrimidine nucleobases .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleobases ,  one of the two classes of nitrogen - containing ring compounds found in dna and rna ,  which include adenine and guanine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a nucleoside diphosphate to produce a nucleoside triphosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyrimidine nucleobases ,  1 , 3 - diazine ,  organic nitrogenous bases .
any cellular metabolic process involving deoxyribonucleic acid .
the process of restoring dna after damage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna repair .
a dna repair process in which a small region of the strand surrounding the damage is removed from the dna helix as an oligonucleotide .
any process in which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase ii .
the synthesis of rna from a dna template by rna polymerase ii  ( rnap ii )  ,  originating at an rna polymerase ii promoter .
the synthesis of rna from a mitochondrial dna template ,  usually by a specific mitochondrial rna polymerase .
any process involved in the conversion of one or more primary rna transcripts into one or more mature rna molecules .
the cellular metabolic process in which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna or circrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis .
the process resulting in the release of a polypeptide chain from the ribosome ,  usually in response to a termination codon  ( uaa ,  uag ,  or uga in the universal genetic code )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna or circrna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or accuracy of translational elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational termination .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
a protein modification process that results in the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid ,  e .g .
a protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the n4 atom of peptidyl - asparagine ,  the omega - n of arginine ,  or the n1' atom peptidyl - tryptophan .
a protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the hydroxyl group of peptidyl - serine ,  peptidyl - threonine ,  peptidyl - hydroxylysine ,  or peptidyl - hydroxyproline ,  or via the phenol group of peptidyl - tyrosine ,  forming an o - glycan .
the covalent attachment of lipid groups to an amino acid in a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchors ,  molecular mechanisms for attaching membrane proteins to the lipid bilayer of cell membranes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a glycosylphosphatidylinositol  ( gpi )  anchor that attaches some membrane proteins to the lipid bilayer of the cell membrane .
the hydrolysis of proteins into smaller polypeptides and / or amino acids by cleavage of their peptide bonds .
the removal of sugar residues from a glycosylated protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  carboxylic acids containing one or more amino groups ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glutamine ,  2 - amino - 4 - carbamoylbutanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycine ,  aminoethanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving histidine ,  2 - amino - 3 -  ( 1h - imidazol - 4 - yl ) propanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving methionine  ( 2 - amino - 4 -  ( methylthio ) butanoic acid )  ,  a sulfur - containing ,  essential amino acid found in peptide linkage in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving l - phenylalanine ,  the l - enantiomer of 2 - amino - 3 - phenylpropanoic acid ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving proline  ( pyrrolidine - 2 - carboxylic acid )  ,  a chiral ,  cyclic ,  nonessential alpha - amino acid found in peptide linkage in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving l - serine ,  the l - enantiomer of serine ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of l - serine ,  the l - enantiomer of serine ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tryptophan ,  the chiral amino acid 2 - amino - 3 -  ( 1h - indol - 3 - yl ) propanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tyrosine ,  an aromatic amino acid ,  2 - amino - 3 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) propanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of tyrosine ,  an aromatic amino acid ,  2 - amino - 3 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) propanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving valine ,  2 - amino - 3 - methylbutanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds derived from amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways occurring at the level of individual cells involving any of a group of naturally occurring ,  biologically active amines ,  such as norepinephrine ,  histamine ,  and serotonin ,  many of which act as neurotransmitters .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving indolalkylamines ,  indole or indole derivatives containing a primary ,  secondary ,  or tertiary amine group .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ornithine ,  an amino acid only rarely found in proteins ,  but which is important in living organisms as an intermediate in the reactions of the urea cycle and in arginine biosynthesis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving creatine  ( n -  ( aminoiminomethyl )  - n - methylglycine )  ,  a compound synthesized from the amino acids arginine ,  glycine ,  and methionine that occurs in muscle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of creatine ,  n -  [ amino ( imino ) methyl ]  - n - methylglycine .
protein processing that takes place in the vacuole .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids ,  aliphatic monocarboxylic acids liberated from naturally occurring fats and oils by hydrolysis .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a fatty acid ,  any of the aliphatic monocarboxylic acids that can be liberated by hydrolysis from naturally occurring fats and oils .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving membrane lipids ,  any lipid found in or associated with a biological membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving phospholipids ,  any lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or diester .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycerophospholipids ,  any derivative of glycerophosphate that contains at least one o - acyl ,  o - alkyl ,  or o - alkenyl group attached to the glycerol residue .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phosphatidylinositol ,  any glycophospholipid in which the sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate residue is esterified to the 1 - hydroxyl group of 1d - myo - inositol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycerol ethers ,  any anhydride formed between two organic hydroxy compounds ,  one of which is glycerol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycolipids ,  a class of 1 , 2 - di - o - acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part  ( usually a mono -  ,  di -  or tri - saccharide )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sphingolipids ,  any of a class of lipids containing the long - chain amine diol sphingosine or a closely related base  ( a sphingoid )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus ;  includes de novo formation and steroid interconversion by modification .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of bile acids ,  any of a group of steroid carboxylic acids occurring in bile .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glucocorticoids ,  hormonal c21 corticosteroids synthesized from cholesterol .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoid compounds ,  isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  or compounds containing or derived from linked isoprene  ( 3 - methyl - 2 - butenylene )  residues .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving terpenoids ,  any member of a class of compounds characterized by an isoprenoid chemical structure and including derivatives with various functional groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
obsolete .the chemical reactions and pathways involving coenzymes ,  any of various nonprotein organic cofactors that are required ,  in addition to an enzyme and a substrate ,  for an enzymatic reaction to proceed .
obsolete .the chemical reactions and pathways involving coenzymes that are required ,  in addition to an enzyme and a substrate ,  for an oxidoreductase reaction to proceed .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ubiquinone ,  a lipid - soluble electron - transporting coenzyme .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ubiquinone ,  a lipid - soluble electron - transporting coenzyme .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glutathione ,  the tripeptide glutamylcysteinylglycine ,  which acts as a coenzyme for some enzymes and as an antioxidant in the protection of sulfhydryl groups in enzymes and other proteins ;  it has a specific role in the reduction of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  and oxidized ascorbate ,  and it participates in the gamma - glutamyl cycle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glutathione ,  the tripeptide glutamylcysteinylglycine ,  which acts as a coenzyme for some enzymes and as an antioxidant in the protection of sulfhydryl groups in enzymes and other proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any phosphorylated nucleoside .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of atp ,  adenosine 5' - triphosphate ,  a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into adp ,  adenosine diphosphate ,  to produce atp .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a folic acid - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving biotin ,  cis - tetrahydro - 2 - oxothieno ( 3 , 4 - d ) imidazoline - 4 - valeric acid ;  the  (  +  )  enantiomer is very widely distributed in cells and serves as a carrier in a number of enzymatic beta - carboxylation reactions .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving of any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in organic solvents and relatively insoluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of the vitamin a compounds ,  retinol ,  retinal  ( retinaldehyde )  and retinoic acid ,  all of which are derivatives of beta - carotene .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any member of a large group of derivatives or analogs of porphyrin .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of cations ,  atoms or small molecules with a net positive charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of calcium  ( ca )  ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of chloride into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of iron  ( fe )  ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of dicarboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of serotonin into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
transport of substances into ,  out of or within a mitochondrion .
the process in which a drug is transported across a membrane .
the transport of substances that occurs outside cells .
the directed extracellular movement of carbohydrates .
the directed extracellular movement of amino acids .
the directed movement of amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of copper ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of iron ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of hydrogen ions ,  thereby modulating the internal ph ,  within an organism or cell .
the directed movement of proteins in a cell ,  including the movement of proteins between specific compartments or structures within a cell ,  such as organelles of a eukaryotic cell .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which cells take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
an endocytosis process in which cell surface receptors ensure specificity of transport .
the evagination of a membrane ,  resulting in formation of a vesicle .
the process in which vesicles are directed to specific destination membranes .
a vesicle - mediated transport process that results in the engulfment of external particulate material by phagocytes and their delivery to the lysosome .
the initial step in phagocytosis involving adhesion to bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter ,  or an apoptotic cell and based on recognition of factors such as bacterial cell wall components ,  opsonins like complement and antibody or protein receptors and lipids like phosphatidyl serine ,  and leading to intracellular signaling in the phagocytosing cell .
the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis ,  including the membrane and cytoskeletal processes required ,  which involves one of three mechanisms: zippering of pseudopods around a target via repeated receptor - ligand interactions ,  sinking of the target directly into plasma membrane of the phagocytosing cell ,  or induced uptake via an enhanced membrane ruffling of the phagocytosing cell similar to macropinocytosis .
a programmed cell death process which begins when a cell receives an internal  ( e .g .
the breakdown of structures such as organelles ,  proteins ,  or other macromolecular structures during apoptosis .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cell or subcellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism ,  or the directed growth of a cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
reactions ,  triggered in response to the presence of a foreign body or the occurrence of an injury ,  which result in restriction of damage to the organism attacked or prevention / recovery from the infection caused by the attack .
the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
any process involved in the activation of any of the steps of the complement cascade ,  which allows for the direct killing of microbes ,  the disposal of immune complexes ,  and the regulation of other immune processes ;  the initial steps of complement activation involve one of three pathways ,  the classical pathway ,  the alternative pathway ,  and the lectin pathway ,  all of which lead to the terminal complement pathway .
an immune response mediated through a body fluid .
a defense response that is mediated by cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nucleus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion ;  includes mitochondrial morphogenesis and distribution ,  and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrial membrane ,  either of the lipid bilayer surrounding a mitochondrion .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the plasma membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a microtubule - based process that results in the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within a vacuole .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions in the vacuole or between a vacuole and its surroundings .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within a lysosome .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the cell cycle process in which chromatin structure is compacted prior to and during mitosis in eukaryotic cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
a mitotic cell cycle in which chromosomes are replicated and sister chromatids separate ,  but spindle formation ,  nuclear membrane breakdown and nuclear division do not occur ,  resulting in an increased number of chromosomes in the cell .
the second nuclear division of meiosis ,  in which the two chromatids in each chromosome are separated ,  resulting in four daughter nuclei from the two nuclei produced in meiosis ii .
a cell cycle process by which the cell nucleus divides as part of a meiotic cell cycle in the male germline .
a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through male meiosis ii ,  the second meiotic division in the male germline .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules .
the attachment of a leukocyte to another cell via adhesion molecules .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
a series of molecular signals initiated by activation of a receptor on the surface of a cell .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of glutamate to a glutamate receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell through the i - kappab - kinase  ( ikk )  - dependent activation of nf - kappab .
any series of molecular signals in which a small monomeric gtpase relays one or more of the signals .
a series of molecular signals within the cell that are mediated by a member of the ras superfamily of proteins switching to a gtp - bound active state .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another .
the vesicular release of classical neurotransmitter molecules from a presynapse ,  across a chemical synapse ,  the subsequent activation of neurotransmitter receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
the process in which glial cells envelop neuronal cell bodies and / or axons to form an insulating layer .
the process of synaptic transmission from a neuron to a muscle ,  across a synapse .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the generation and maintenance of gametes in a multicellular organism .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an immature germ cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure  ( gamete )  .
the developmental process by which male germ line stem cells self renew or give rise to successive cell types resulting in the development of a spermatozoa .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the assembly and organization of the sperm flagellar axoneme ,  the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of the eukaryotic sperm flagellum ,  and is responsible for movement .
the specialization of the spermatid nucleus during the development of a spermatid into a mature male gamete competent for fertilization .
the introduction of semen or sperm into the genital tract of a female .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progress through the mitotic cell cycle .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of nervous tissue over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
de novo generation of a long process of a neuron ,  including the terminal branched region .
the chemotaxis process that directs the migration of an axon growth cone to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the central nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the brain over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of sensory organs over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mesoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a cell - cell signaling process occurring between the two gastrulation - generated layers of the ectoderm and the mesoderm .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the heart over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the establishment of the sex of an organism by physical differentiation .
the set of physiological processes that allow an embryo or foetus to develop within the body of a female animal .
attachment of the blastocyst to the uterine lining .
a developmental process that is a deterioration and loss of function over time .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process of gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
the whole of the physical ,  chemical ,  and biochemical processes carried out by multicellular organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
the controlled release of a fluid by a cell or tissue in an animal .
the regulated release of milk from the mammary glands and the period of time that a mother lactates to feed her young .
the sequential process in which the multiple coagulation factors of the blood interact ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of an insoluble fibrin clot ;  it may be divided into three stages: stage 1 ,  the formation of intrinsic and extrinsic prothrombin converting principle ;  stage 2 ,  the formation of thrombin ;  stage 3 ,  the formation of stable fibrin polymers .
the stopping of bleeding  ( loss of body fluid )  or the arrest of the circulation to an organ or part .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a visual stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an auditory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of animals  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli ,  via a mechanism that involves nervous system activity .
the acquisition and processing of information and / or the storage and retrieval of this information over time .
the activities involved in the mental information processing system that receives  ( registers )  ,  modifies ,  stores ,  and retrieves informational stimuli .
the behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of mating ,  or sexual reproduction resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the pairwise union of individuals for the purpose of sexual reproduction ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the act of sexual union between male and female ,  involving the transfer of sperm .
the specific behavior of an organism that recur with measured regularity .
any biological process in an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
behavior associated with the intake of food .
the behavior of an organism in response to a visual stimulus .
the flow of blood through the body of an animal ,  enabling the transport of nutrients to the tissues and the removal of waste products .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
the process in which a cell in an organism interprets its surroundings .
combining with an extracellular messenger and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to results in a change in cellular activity involved in axon guidance .
combining with glutamate and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity .
catalysis of the transfer of an acetyl group to a nitrogen atom on the acceptor molecule .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  a thiopurine = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  a thiopurine s - methylether .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a drug ,  any naturally occurring or synthetic substance ,  other than a nutrient ,  that ,  when administered or applied to an organism ,  affects the structure or functioning of the organism ;  in particular ,  any such substance used in the diagnosis ,  prevention ,  or treatment of disease .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to an acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to the sulfur atom of an acceptor molecule .
stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the activity of an ion channel .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving bile acids ,  any of a group of steroid carboxylic acids occurring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucocorticoids ,  hormonal c21 corticosteroids synthesized from cholesterol .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
the process in which a microorganism  ( or other particulate material )  is rendered more susceptible to phagocytosis by coating with an opsonin ,  a blood serum protein such as a complement component or antibody .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue  ( e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond not more than three residues from the n -  or c - terminus of a polypeptide chain ,  in a reaction that requires a free n - terminal amino group ,  c - terminal carboxyl group or both .
catalysis of the release of an n - terminal tripeptide from a polypeptide .
catalysis of the cleavage of non - standard peptide bonds releasing substituted amino acids such as pyroglutamate or cleave isopeptide bonds ,  such as many deubiquitinating enzymes .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a lipid .
the activity of binding selectively and non - covalently to and distorting the original structure of dna ,  typically a straight helix ,  into a bend ,  or increasing the bend if the original structure was intrinsically bent due to its sequence .
enables the transfer of cation from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an antimicrobial humoral response .
any process in which the axon of a neuron is insulated ,  and that insulation maintained ,  thereby preventing dispersion of the electrical signal .
catalysis of the transfer of sialic acid to an acceptor molecule ,  typically the terminal portions of the sialylated glycolipids  ( gangliosides )  or to the n -  or o - linked sugar chains of glycoproteins .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to an oxygen atom on the acceptor molecule .
the process of removing sections of the primary rna transcript to remove sequences not present in the mature form of the rna and joining the remaining sections to form the mature form of the rna .
catalysis of the formation of a hydroxyl group on a steroid by incorporation of oxygen from o2 .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a phosphofructose substrate molecule .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal non - reducing n - acetyl - d - galactosamine residues in n - acetyl - alpha - d - galactosaminides .
catalysis of the reaction: sarcosine  +  h2o  +  electron - transfer flavoprotein = glycine  +  formaldehyde  +  reduced electron - transfer flavoprotein .
catalysis of the reaction: h ( 2 ) o  +  o ( 2 )   +  sulfite = h ( 2 ) o ( 2 )   +  h (  +  )   +  sulfate .
catalysis of the transfer of an amino group to an acceptor ,  usually a 2 - oxo acid .
catalysis of the reaction: rso - r'  +  h2o = rsooh  +  r'h .
enables the transfer of a negatively charged ion from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of organic anions from one side of a membrane to the other .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the epidermis over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ether lipids ,  lipids that contain  ( normally )  one lipid alcohol in ether linkage to one of the carbon atoms  ( normally c - 1 )  of glycerol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyridoxine ,  2 - methyl - 3 - hydroxy - 4 , 5 - bis ( hydroxymethyl ) pyridine ,  one of the vitamin b6 compounds .
the directed movement of carbohydrate into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which hexose is transported across a membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phospholipids ,  any lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or diester .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from s - adenosyl - l - methionine to a substrate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the enzymatic release of energy from inorganic and organic compounds  ( especially carbohydrates and fats )  which requires oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the aspartate family ,  comprising asparagine ,  aspartate ,  lysine ,  methionine and threonine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids of the aspartate family ,  comprising asparagine ,  aspartate ,  lysine ,  methionine and threonine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the serine family ,  comprising cysteine ,  glycine ,  homoserine ,  selenocysteine and serine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids of the serine family ,  comprising cysteine ,  glycine ,  homoserine ,  selenocysteine and serine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic amino acid family ,  amino acids with aromatic ring  ( phenylalanine ,  tyrosine ,  tryptophan )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of aromatic amino acid family ,  amino acids with aromatic ring  ( phenylalanine ,  tyrosine ,  tryptophan )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing a branched carbon skeleton ,  comprising isoleucine ,  leucine and valine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of methionine  ( 2 - amino - 4 -  ( methylthio ) butanoic acid )  ,  a sulfur - containing ,  essential amino acid found in peptide linkage in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipoate ,  1 , 2 - dithiolane - 3 - pentanoate ,  the anion derived from lipoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipoate ,  1 , 2 - dithiolane - 3 - pentanoate ,  the anion derived from lipoic acid .
obsolete .the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of coenzymes ,  any of various nonprotein organic cofactors that are required ,  in addition to an enzyme and a substrate ,  for an enzymatic reaction to proceed .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase ,  a nitrogenous base that is a constituent of a nucleic acid ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleotide ,  a nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides ,  any nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic - nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleotides ,  any nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic - nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine ribonucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  ,  a water - soluble vitamin characterized by possession of a corrin nucleus containing a cobalt atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycolipid ,  a class of 1 , 2 - di - o - acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part  ( usually a mono -  ,  di -  or tri - saccharide )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the region of a virus ,  bacterial cell ,  mitochondrion or chloroplast to which the nucleic acid is confined .
the controlled release of proteins from a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving oligosaccharides ,  molecules with between two and  ( about )  20 monosaccharide residues connected by glycosidic linkages .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba ,  4 - aminobutyrate )  ,  an amino acid which acts as a neurotransmitter in some organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba ,  4 - aminobutyrate )  ,  an amino acid which acts as a neurotransmitter in some organisms .
the union of gametes of opposite sexes during the process of sexual reproduction to form a zygote .
the series of events in which an external stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which an  ( non - living )  abiotic stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a light stimulus  ( in the form of photons )  is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a visible light stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a compound containing a pyrocatechol  ( 1 , 2 - benzenediol )  nucleus or substituent .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of catechol - containing compounds .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a series of molecular signals mediated by the detection of a hormone .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo from its formation until the end of its embryonic life stage .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo over time ,  from zygote formation until the end of the embryonic life stage .
morphogenesis of an animal organ .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an epidermal cell ,  any of the cells making up the epidermis .
the directed movement of hormones into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
compaction of chromatin structure prior to meiosis in eukaryotic cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proton transport into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular defense response .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the endomembrane system .
an aging process that has as participant a whole multicellular organism .
the infolding of a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell fate commitment .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency or rate of cell fate commitment .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency or rate of cell fate commitment .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phosphatidylinositol .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phosphatidylinositol .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phosphatidylinositol .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ketone ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression after the production of an rna transcript .
the activation of endogenous cellular processes that result in the death of a cell as part of its development .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
a tissue homeostatic process required for the maintenance of epithelial structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that decreases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any cellular process that decreases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates carried out by repression of transcription .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquinone biosynthesis .
any process that modulates the levels of hormone within an organism or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process in which a lipid is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the directed movement of lipids into cells that is part of their accumulation and maintenance .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of lipid storage .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of lipid storage .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of lipid storage .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of sequestering of triglyceride .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of sequestering of triglyceride .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of sequestering of triglyceride .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of glucose metabolism .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of glucose metabolism .
any process that modulates the activity of an isomerase .
any process that increases the activity of an isomerase .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity .
the cellular component assembly that is part of the initial shaping of the component during its developmental progression .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of protein maturation by peptide bond cleavage .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of protein maturation by peptide bond cleavage .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a vitamin d biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of metal ion transport .
the movement of organelles or other particles from one location in the cell to another along microtubules ,  driven by motor activity .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of lipoprotein particle clearance .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of lipoprotein particle clearance .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of lipoprotein particle clearance .
a process which begins when a cell receives an internal or external signal and activates a series of biochemical events  ( signaling pathway )  .
a collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell .
the lipid bilayer surrounding any membrane - bounded vesicle in the cell .
the formation of the neural tube from an epithelial cell sheet  ( the neuroepithelium or neural plate )  .
the process aimed at the progression of a mesenchymal cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process aimed at the progression of a neural crest cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neural crest cell .
the regulated release of dopamine by a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of serotonin .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of serotonin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of serotonin .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a striated muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the reversible transfer of an amidino group to an acceptor .
catalysis of the reaction: l - arginine  +  glycine = l - ornithine  +  guanidinoacetate .
enables the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of calcium  ( ca )  ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of inorganic anions from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of chloride ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of sialic acid from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of carbohydrate from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of a monosaccharide from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of a hexose sugar ,  a monosaccharide with 6 carbon atoms ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of glucose - 6 - phosphate from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of amino acids from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the energy - independent facilitated diffusion ,  mediated by passage of a solute through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transfer of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other ,  up its concentration gradient .
enables the transfer of an inorganic molecular entity from the outside of a cell to the inside of the cell across a membrane .
enables the transfer of thyroid hormones from one side of a membrane to the other .
the directed movement of substances that are gaseous in normal living conditions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of oxygen  ( o2 )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of magnesium  ( mg )  ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organic cations into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of ammonium into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of inorganic anions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organic anions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of hexose phosphate into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of bilirubin into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of sialic acid into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organophosphate esters into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which a monosaccharide is transported across a lipid bilayer ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the directed movement of glucose - 6 - phosphate into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of neutral amino acids ,  amino acids with no net charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of amines ,  including polyamines ,  organic compounds containing one or more amino groups ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of monoamines ,  organic compounds that contain one amino group that is connected to an aromatic ring by an ethylene group  (  - ch2 - ch2 -  )  ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of an organic hydroxy compound  ( organic alcohol )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of dopamine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of thiamine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  ,  a water - soluble vitamin characterized by possession of a corrin nucleus containing a cobalt atom ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a drug ,  a substance used in the diagnosis ,  treatment or prevention of a disease ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of mannosyl compounds ,  substances containing a group derived from a cyclic form of mannose or a mannose derivative .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of galactosyl compounds ,  substances containing a group derived from a cyclic form of galactose or a galactose derivative .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of glucosyl compounds ,  substances containing a group derived from a cyclic form of glucose or a glucose derivative .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of trehalose or a trehalose derivative .
catalysis of the cleavage of hexosamine or n - acetylhexosamine residues  ( e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which a cell derives energy from organic compounds ;  results in the oxidation of the compounds from which energy is released .
the transport of protons across a membrane to generate an electrochemical gradient  ( proton - motive force )  that provides energy for the synthesis of atp or gtp .
the transport of protons across a membrane to generate an electrochemical gradient  ( proton - motive force )  that powers atp synthesis .
a multiprotein complex that forms a strong mechanical link between the cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix ;  typical of ,  but not confined to ,  muscle cells .
a protein complex that includes alpha -  and beta - dystroglycan ,  which are alternative products of the same gene ;  the laminin - binding component of the dystrophin - associated glycoprotein complex ,  providing a link between the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton  ( in muscle cells )  and the extracellular matrix .
a protein complex formed of four sarcoglycans plus sarcospan ;  there are six known sarcoglycans: alpha -  ,  beta -  ,  gamma -  ,  delta -  ,  epsilon -  and zeta - sarcoglycan ;  all are n - glycosylated single - pass transmembrane proteins .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
the component of a membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vesicle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
an immune response mediated by immunoglobulins ,  whether cell - bound or in solution .
an inflammatory response driven by antigen recognition by antibodies bound to fc receptors on mast cells or basophils ,  occurring within minutes after exposure of a sensitized individual to the antigen ,  and leading to the release of a variety of inflammatory mediators such as histamines .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving diterpenoid compounds ,  terpenoids with four isoprene units .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tetraterpenoid compounds ,  terpenoids with eight isoprene units .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carotenoids ,  tetraterpenoid compounds in which two units of 4 isoprenoid residues joined head - to - tail are themselves joined tail - to - tail .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sterols ,  steroids with one or more hydroxyl groups and a hydrocarbon side - chain in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of sterols ,  steroids with one or more hydroxyl groups and a hydrocarbon side - chain in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of sterols ,  steroids with one or more hydroxyl groups and a hydrocarbon side - chain in the molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: nad ( p ) h  +  o2 = nad ( p ) h  +  o2 -  .
a cellular transport process in which transported substances are moved in membrane - bounded vesicles ;  transported substances are enclosed in the vesicle lumen or located in the vesicle membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle development .
inhibition of the reactions brought about by dioxygen  ( o2 )  or peroxides .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which one substrate is a sterol derivative .
modulates the activity of a channel .
stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the activity of a channel via direct interaction with the channel .
catalysis of the reaction: n - sulfo - d - glucosamine  +  h2o = d - glucosamine  +  sulfate .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
the process of removing one or more phosphoric  ( ester or anhydride )  residues from a molecule .
the process in which the anatomical structures of embryonic epithelia are generated and organized .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to an oxygen atom on the carnitine molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of an acetyl group to an acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to a carbon atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a palmitoyl  ( ch3 -  [ ch2 ] 14 - co -  )  group to an acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to a nitrogen atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of an acetyl group to an oxygen atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the joining of a carboxyl group to a molecule that is attached to coa ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
recombination occurring within or between dna molecules in somatic cells .
the somatic process that results in the generation of sequence diversity of immunoglobulins .
the process in which immunoglobulin genes are formed through recombination of the germline genetic elements ,  as known as immunoglobulin gene segments ,  within a single locus .
catalysis of the transfer of a palmitoyl group to a carbon atom on the acceptor molecule .
a large protein complex that catalyzes the synthesis or hydrolysis of atp by a rotational mechanism ,  coupled to the transport of protons across a membrane .
the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell from one site to a destination guided by molecular cues .
the directed movement of substances or organelles within the cytosol .
any protein maturation process achieved by the cleavage of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with glutamate ,  the anion of 2 - aminopentanedioic acid .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an amino acid ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group act as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad +  or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone  ( oxo )  group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - ch group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - ch group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - nh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - nh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which nadh or nadph acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a sulfur - containing group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a sulfur - containing group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces oxygen .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which the peroxide group acts as a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from each of two donors ,  and molecular oxygen is reduced or incorporated into a donor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from reduced flavin or flavoprotein and one other donor ,  and one atom of oxygen is incorporated into one donor .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a one - carbon group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group ,  other than amino - acyl ,  from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an amino - acyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a glycosyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an alkyl or aryl  ( but not methyl )  group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a nitrogenous group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to an alcohol group  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to a carboxyl group  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a diphosphate group from one compound  ( donor )  to a another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any ester bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphoric monoesters ,  releasing inorganic phosphate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any glycosyl bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any carbon - nitrogen bond ,  c - n ,  with the exception of peptide bonds .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non - peptide carbon - nitrogen bond in a linear amide .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non - peptide carbon - nitrogen bond in a cyclic amide .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non - peptide carbon - nitrogen bond in a cyclic amidine ,  a compound of the form r - c ( =nh )  - nh2 .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid phosphorus - nitrogen bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid sulfur - nitrogen bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the nonhydrolytic addition or removal of a carboxyl group to or from a compound .
catalysis of the cleavage of a c - c bond in a molecule containing a hydroxyl group and a carbonyl group to form two smaller molecules ,  each being an aldehyde or a ketone .
catalysis of the breakage of a carbon - oxygen bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of a carbon - oxygen bond by elimination of water .
catalysis of the release of ammonia or one of its derivatives ,  with the formation of a double bond or ring .
catalysis of the release of amides or amidines by the cleavage of a carbon - nitrogen bond or the reverse reaction with an amide or amidine as a substrate .
catalysis of the geometric or structural changes within one molecule .
catalysis of a reaction that alters the configuration of one or more chiral centers in a molecule .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which the hydrogen donor and acceptor are the same molecule ,  and no oxidized product appears .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which the hydrogen donor and acceptor ,  which is an aldose or a ketose ,  are the same molecule ,  and no oxidized product appears .
catalysis of the transfer of a functional group from one position to another within a single molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group from one position to another within a single molecule .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules ,  or two groups within a single molecule ,  using the energy from the hydrolysis of atp ,  a similar triphosphate ,  or a ph gradient .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules ,  or two groups within a single molecule ,  via a carbon - nitrogen bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the ligation of an acid to an amino acid via a carbon - nitrogen bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules via a carbon - carbon bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone  ( oxo )  group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of the reaction: acyl - coa  +  acceptor = 2 , 3 - dehydroacyl - coa  +  reduced acceptor ,  where the acyl group is a short branched chain fatty acid residue .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an antibiotic ,  a substance produced by or derived from certain fungi ,  bacteria ,  and other organisms ,  that can destroy or inhibit the growth of other microorganisms .
catalysis of the reaction: acyl - coa  +  acceptor = 2 , 3 - dehydroacyl - coa  +  reduced acceptor ,  where the acyl group is a very long chain fatty acid residue .
a  multisubunit tethering complex of the catchr family  ( complexes associated with tethering containing helical rods )  that has a role in tethering vesicles to the golgi prior to fusion .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a drug ,  a substance used in the diagnosis ,  treatment or prevention of a disease ;  as used here antibiotic substances  ( see antibiotic metabolism )  are considered to be drugs ,  even if not used in medical or veterinary practice .
the self - renewing division of a stem cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna or circrna .
catalysis of the reaction: 5 - oxo - l - proline  +  atp  +  2 h ( 2 ) o = l - glutamate  +  adp  +  2 h (  +  )   +  phosphate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a substrate by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue  ( e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the modification of a protein amino acid by phosphopantetheinylation .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  biotin  +  protein = amp  +  diphosphate  +  biotin - protein .
catalysis of the reaction: methanethiol  +  o2  +  h2o = formaldehyde  +  hydrogen sulfide  +  hydrogen peroxide .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic ethers ,  any anhydride of the general formula r1 - o - r2 ,  formed between two identical or nonidentical organic hydroxy compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a phenol ,  any compound containing one or more hydroxyl groups directly attached to an aromatic carbon ring .
the specific behavior of an organism that is associated with reproduction .
the biosynthetic process in which peptide bond formation occurs in the absence of the translational machinery .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a carbohydrate substrate molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: carbohydrate phosphate  +  h2o = carbohydrate  +  phosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a cytokine to a receptor on the surface of a cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the neurological system process in which a signal is transmitted through the nervous system by a combination of action potential propagation and synaptic transmission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reductions in the diameter of blood vessels .
the series of events by which an organism senses the position ,  location ,  orientation ,  and movement of the body and its parts .
the series of events by which an organism senses the speed and direction of movement of the body and its parts .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a painful stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
catalysis of the removal of an amino group from a substrate ,  producing ammonia  ( nh3 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a hexose ,  any monosaccharide with a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hexose ,  any monosaccharide with a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nicotinamide nucleotides ,  any nucleotide that contains combined nicotinamide .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pyridine nucleotide ,  a nucleotide characterized by a pyridine derivative as a nitrogen base .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pyridine nucleotide ,  a nucleotide characterized by a pyridine derivative as a nitrogen base .
the removal of one or more electrons from a fatty acid ,  with or without the concomitant removal of a proton or protons ,  by reaction with an electron - accepting substance ,  by addition of oxygen or by removal of hydrogen .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving alditols ,  any polyhydric alcohol derived from the acyclic form of a monosaccharide by reduction of its aldehyde or keto group to an alcoholic group .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving urea ,  the water soluble compound o=c -  ( nh2 ) 2 .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organophosphates ,  any phosphate - containing organic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ribose phosphate ,  any phosphorylated ribose sugar .
any process involved with the carrying out of an immune response by a b cell ,  through ,  for instance ,  the production of antibodies or cytokines ,  or antigen presentation to t cells .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the cell .
an immune response against microbes mediated through a body fluid .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a polyol ,  any alcohol containing three or more hydroxyl groups attached to saturated carbon atoms .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
a protein complex that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds and sometimes complexed with additional proteins .
an immunoglobulin complex that is present in the plasma membrane of b cells and that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains and a signaling subunit ,  a heterodimer of the ig - alpha and ig - beta proteins .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving l - ascorbic acid ,   ( 2r )  - 2 -  [  ( 1s )  - 1 , 2 - dihydroxyethyl ]  - 4 - hydroxy - 5 - oxo - 2 , 5 - dihydrofuran - 3 - olate ;  l - ascorbic acid is vitamin c and has co - factor and anti - oxidant activities in many species .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of l - ascorbic acid ;  l - ascorbic acid ionizes to give l - ascorbate ,   ( 2r )  - 2 -  [  ( 1s )  - 1 , 2 - dihydroxyethyl ]  - 4 - hydroxy - 5 - oxo - 2 , 5 - dihydrofuran - 3 - olate ,  which is required as a cofactor in the oxidation of prolyl residues to hydroxyprolyl ,  and other reactions .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of an organelle envelope ;  usually highly selective to most ions and metabolites .
the process in which an antigen - presenting cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or lipid )  on its cell surface in association with an mhc protein complex .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pteridine ,  pyrazino ( 2 , 3 - dipyrimidine )  ,  the parent structure of pterins and the pteroyl group .
the accumulation and maintenance in cells or tissues of lipids ,  compounds soluble in organic solvents but insoluble or sparingly soluble in aqueous solvents .
a reproduction process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism ,  in the case of self - fertilizing hermaphrodites ,  e .g .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cytokine ,  any of a group of proteins that function to control the survival ,  growth and differentiation of tissues and cells ,  and which have autocrine and paracrine activity .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an anatomical structure ,  cell or cellular component to attain its fully functional state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the neural tube over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
generation of cells within the nervous system .
the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
a multicellular organismal process involved in the periodic casting off and regeneration of an outer covering of cuticle ,  feathers ,  hair ,  horns ,  skin .
a multicellular organismal process involved in the cyclical phases of growth  ( anagen )  ,  regression  ( catagen )  ,  quiescence  ( telogen )  ,  and shedding  ( exogen )  in the life of a hair ;  one of the collection or mass of filaments growing from the skin of an animal ,  and forming a covering for a part of the head or for any part or the whole of the body .
the initial attachment of a membrane or protein to a target membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
a behavioral process involved in the cycle from wakefulness through an orderly succession of sleep states and stages that occurs on an approximately 24 hour rhythm .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a cellular component .
a process ,  occurring at the cellular level ,  that is involved in the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the progression of physiological phases ,  occurring in the endometrium during the menstrual cycle that recur at regular intervals during the reproductive years .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anatomical structure morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cellular component .
the attachment of a cell or organism to a substrate ,  another cell ,  or other organism .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a complex containing rna and proteins .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and rna molecules to form a ribonucleoprotein complex .
a ribosome located in the cytosol .
enables the transfer of a single solute from one side of a membrane to the other by a mechanism involving conformational change ,  either by facilitated diffusion or in a membrane potential dependent process if the solute is charged .
enables the transfer of a specific substance or related group of substances from one side of a membrane to the other ,  up the solute's concentration gradient .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific neurotransmitter has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transport of a solute across a membrane via a large pore ,  un - gated channel .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel whose open state is dependent on the voltage across the membrane in which it is embedded .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens when a specific neurotransmitter has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens in response to a specific stimulus .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens in response to a specific ion stimulus .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a cation by a voltage - gated channel .
selectively enables the transmembrane transfer of a cation by a channel that opens upon binding acetylcholine .
enables the transfer of a substance ,  usually a specific substance or a group of related substances ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of inorganic cations from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression as a consequence of a process in which a signal is released and / or conveyed from one location to another .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of the cell surface receptor cd40 to one of its physiological ligands ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the process in which a signal is secreted or discharged into the extracellular medium from a cellular source .
the directed movement of metal ions ,  any metal ion with an electric charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations at the level of a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
formation of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a cellular component that forms a specialized region of connection between two or more cells ,  or between a cell and the extracellular matrix ,  or between two membrane - bound components of a cell ,  such as flagella .
a cell - cell junction in which: on the cytoplasmic surface of each interacting plasma membrane is a dense plaque composed of a mixture of intracellular anchor proteins ;  a bundle of keratin intermediate filaments is attached to the surface of each plaque ;  transmembrane adhesion proteins of the cadherin family bind to the plaques and interact through their extracellular domains to hold the adjacent membranes together by a ca2 +  - dependent mechanism .
the regulated release of a peptide hormone from a cell .
the regulated release of proinsulin from secretory granules accompanied by cleavage of proinsulin to form mature insulin .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the myeloid and lymphoid derived organ / tissue systems of the blood and other parts of the body over time ,  from formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized precursor cell acquires specialized features of a lymphocyte .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of any cell of the myeloid leukocyte ,  megakaryocyte ,  thrombocyte ,  or erythrocyte lineages .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
the regulated release of vasopressin from secretory granules into the blood .
a small subcellular vesicle ,  surrounded by a membrane ,  that is formed from the golgi apparatus and contains a highly concentrated protein destined for secretion .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of sphingolipids ,  any of a class of lipids containing the long - chain amine diol sphingosine or a closely related base  ( a sphingoid )  .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell or to the extracellular matrix .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a b cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an extracellular matrix .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heparin ,  any member of a group of glycosaminoglycans found mainly as an intracellular component of mast cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosaminoglycans ,  any one of a group of polysaccharides that contain amino sugars .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heparin ,  any member of a group of glycosaminoglycans of average mr  ( 6000 - 20000 )  ,  consisting predominantly of alternating alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked d - galactose and n - acetyl - d - glucosamine - 6 - sulfate residues .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving hyaluronan ,  the naturally occurring anionic form of hyaluronic acid ,  any member of a group of glycosaminoglycans ,  the repeat units of which consist of beta - 1 , 4 linked d - glucuronyl - beta -  ( 1 , 3 )  - n - acetyl - d - glucosamine .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a keratinocyte .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires characteristics of a more mature t - cell .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires specializes features of an erythrocyte .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires specializes features of a megakaryocyte .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires specialized features of a basophil cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a monocyte .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized monocyte acquires the specialized features of a macrophage .
the regulated release of growth hormone from secretory granules into the blood .
the covalent alteration of one or more fatty acids in a lipid ,  resulting in a change in the properties of the lipid .
the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
alterations undergone by nuclei at the molecular and morphological level as part of the execution phase of apoptosis .
the compaction of chromatin during apoptosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell or cells .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized monocyte acquires the specialized features of an osteoclast .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium  ( aka flagellum )  that contributes to the movement of a flagellated sperm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
catalysis of the reaction: vitamin d3  +  nadph  +  h +   +  o2 = calcidiol  +  nadp +   +  h2o .
the expulsion of feces from the rectum .
the long process of a neuron that conducts nerve impulses ,  usually away from the cell body to the terminals and varicosities ,  which are sites of storage and release of neurotransmitter .
any process in which an organism enters and maintains a periodic ,  readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of complement activation .
a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a intracellular steroid hormone receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of an androgen binding to its receptor .
any series of molecular signals initiated by a ligand binding to an receptor located within a cell .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
the directed movement of a neutrophil cell ,  the most numerous polymorphonuclear leukocyte found in the blood ,  in response to an external stimulus ,  usually an infection or wounding .
combining with a neurotransmitter and transmitting the signal to initiate a change in cell activity .
the movement of a leukocyte in response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a cytoplasmic vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a secretory granule .
the directed movement of substances along cytoskeletal fibers such as microfilaments or microtubules within a cell .
the process of binding or confining any triester of glycerol such that it is separated from other components of a biological system .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  guanidinoacetate = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  creatine  +  h (  +  )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleotides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleotides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleotides .
any chromosome other than a sex chromosome .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a granulocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of granulocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of granulocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of granulocyte differentiation .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an epithelial cell ,  any of the cells making up an epithelium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mammary gland over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency or rate of myeloid dendritic cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid dendritic cell activation .
any process that stimulates ,  induces or increases the rate of myeloid dendritic cell activation .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the midbrain over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any collagen trimer that passes through a lipid bilayer membrane .
an integral membrane complex that possesses nadh oxidoreductase activity .
a nonmembrane - bound oligomeric protein complex that participates in bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules .
a structure lying external to one or more cells ,  which provides structural support ,  biochemical or biomechanical cues for cells or tissues .
a membrane that is one of the two lipid bilayers of an organelle envelope or the outermost membrane of single membrane bound organelle .
a secretory organelle found in blood platelets ,  which is unique in that it exhibits further compartmentalization and acquires its protein content via two distinct mechanisms:  ( 1 )  biosynthesis predominantly at the megakaryocyte  ( mk )  level  ( with some vestigial platelet synthesis )   ( e .g .
a developmental process involving two tissues in which one tissue  ( the inducer )  produces a signal that directs cell fate commitment of cells in the second tissue  ( the responder )  .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron projection over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the component of a membrane consisting of the gene products having some covalently attached portion ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor ,  which spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
the component of the plasma membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a pseudopodium ,  a temporary protrusion or retractile process of a cell ,  associated with cellular movement .
the component of the organelle membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the organelle membrane consisting of the gene products having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the component of the mitochondrial inner membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the mitochondrial inner membrane consisting of the gene products having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing ,  the process in which a cell brings about the death of another cell ,  either in the same or a different organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a carboxylic acid ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
a vesicle found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
the process in which the cytoplasm of the outermost cells of the vertebrate epidermis is replaced by keratin .
a localization process that acts on a protein complex ;  the complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the junction between the axon of a motor neuron and a muscle fiber .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
obsolete .heterochromatic regions of the chromosome found at the telomeres .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucocorticoids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucocorticoids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucocorticoids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glucocorticoids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glucocorticoids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glucocorticoids .
either of the lipid bilayers that surround the mitochondrion and form the mitochondrial envelope .
a double membrane structure enclosing an organelle ,  including two lipid bilayers and the region between them .
the enclosed volume within a sealed membrane or between two sealed membranes .
a multilayered structure surrounding all or part of a cell ;  encompasses one or more lipid bilayers ,  and may include a cell wall layer ;  also includes the space between layers .
the volume enclosed by the nuclear inner membrane .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mitochondrial dna .
the assembly of a bleb ,  a cell extension caused by localized decoupling of the cytoskeleton from the plasma membrane and characterized by rapid formation ,  rounded shape ,  and scarcity of organelles within the protrusion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of carbohydrate phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphate from a carbohydrate phosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose - 6 - phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: d - glucose 6 - phosphate  +  h2o = d - glucose  +  phosphate .
enables the transfer of riboflavin from one side of a membrane to the other .
the directed movement of riboflavin into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which a methyl group is covalently attached to a molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the regulated release of a gonadotropin ,  any hormone that stimulates the gonads ,  especially follicle - stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a gonadotropin .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a gonadotropin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a gonadotropin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hormones .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that modulates the activity of a transporter .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a transporter .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a transporter .
any process that modulates the activity of an ion transporter .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an ion transporter .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an ion transporter .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the golgi apparatus of a cell or between the golgi and its surroundings .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by one or two multicellular organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein in a mitochondrion .
the component of the mitochondrial membrane consisting of the gene products having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the directed movement of a protein from one location to another within a lipid bilayer .
the appearance of interferon - gamma due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon - gamma production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon - gamma production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon - gamma production .
any process that modulates the activity of a monooxygenase .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a monooxygenase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a monooxygenase .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  ( cooh )  group or anion  ( coo -  )  .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving polysaccharides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
the controlled release of a substance by a tissue .
the disaggregation of a protein - containing macromolecular complex into its constituent components .
the disaggregation of a protein - lipid complex into its constituent components .
the process in which cellular structures ,  including whole cells or cell parts ,  are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a cell part are generated and organized .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
a protein complex composed of a subunit or subunits capable of binding the fc portion of an immunoglobulin with additional signaling components .
a protein complex composed of an fc - gamma riii alpha chain and an fc - epsilon ri gamma chain dimer with or without an fc - epsilon ri beta chain and additional signaling components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell activation as part of an immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell activation as part of an immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mast cell activation as part of an immune response .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tetrapyrroles ,  natural pigments containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a chromosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in a cell .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a t cell via a differentiation pathway dependent upon transit through the thymus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation in the thymus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation in the thymus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation in the thymus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna splicing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna splicing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any intracellular steroid hormone receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any intracellular steroid hormone receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any intracellular steroid hormone receptor signaling pathway .
the process in which immune receptor v ,  d ,  and j ,  or v and j gene segments ,  depending on the specific receptor ,  are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
the process in which immunoglobulin gene segments are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform amines .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
obsolete .a part of an axon ,  a cell projection of a neuron .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of collagen binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of collagen binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of collagen binding .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a secretory granule .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an organelle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  via the intermediate lathosterol .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a carbohydrate within an organism or cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in the cytosol .
the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a catecholamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a catecholamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
a process that results in the endonucleolytic cleavage of the damaged strand of dna .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad +  or nadp ,  and in which one substrate is a sterol derivative .
catalysis of the elimination of sulfate from the d - galactose 6 - sulfate residues of porphyran ,  producing 3 , 6 - anhydrogalactose residues .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process of regulating the production and elimination of erythrocytes within an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tissue remodeling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tissue remodeling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tissue remodeling .
the process in which a carbohydrate is transported across a membrane .
a process in which an ion is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving urea .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving primary alcohols .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of primary alcohols .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a diol ,  a compound that contains two hydroxy groups ,  generally assumed to be ,  but not necessarily ,  alcoholic .
the process in which a lipoprotein particle is removed from the blood via receptor - mediated endocytosis and its constituent parts degraded .
the portion of the nuclear lumen proximal to the inner nuclear membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleobase - containing small molecule: a nucleobase ,  a nucleoside ,  or a nucleotide .
the removal of one or more electrons from a lipid ,  with or without the concomitant removal of a proton or protons ,  by reaction with an electron - accepting substance ,  by addition of oxygen or by removal of hydrogen .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a protein complex ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cortisol ,  the steroid hormone 11 - beta - 17 , 21 - trihydroxypregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cortisol ,  the steroid hormone 11 - beta - 17 , 21 - trihydroxypregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
a process in which an iron ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions  ( fe )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions  ( fe )  from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
the peptide cleavage of mitochondrial proteins ,  including cleavage contributing to their import .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized structural and / or functional features of a cell that will form part of the cardiac organ of an individual .
the assembly and organization of an axoneme ,  the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia  ( also called flagella )  in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
creation of the central hole of a tube in an anatomical structure through which gases and / or liquids flow .
ensuring that a tube is of the correct length and diameter .
behavior directed towards society ,  or taking place between members of the same species .
any process that modulates the activity of glutamate - cysteine ligase .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of the enzyme glutamate - cysteine ligase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of glutamate - cysteine ligase ,  typically by lowering its sensitivity to inhibition by glutathione and by increasing its affinity for glutamate .
a series of molecular signals initiated by glutamate binding to a glutamate receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by the movement of ions through a channel in the receptor complex .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tube over time ,  from its initial formation to a mature structure .
any process that modulates the diameter of a tube .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule .
any process the stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule .
an immunoglobulin - like complex that is present in at least the plasma membrane of pre - b cells ,  and that is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two surrogate light chains ,  each composed of the lambda - 5 and vpreb proteins ,  and a signaling subunit ,  a heterodimer of the ig - alpha and ig - beta proteins .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another that will contribute to the differentiation of an endothelial cell that will form de novo blood vessels and tubes .
the process in which a vitamin is transported across a membrane .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location within the extracellular region .
the transfer of information occurring at the level of a multicellular organism .
the bidirectional movement of large protein complexes along microtubules within a cilium that contributes to cilium assembly .
the regulated release of proinsulin from secretory granules  ( b granules )  in the b cells of the pancreas ;  accompanied by cleavage of proinsulin to form mature insulin ,  in response to a glucose stimulus .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin that contributes to the response of a cell to glucose .
the regulated release of parathyroid hormone into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of any steroid that acts as a hormone into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of any corticosteroid hormone into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of any mineralocorticoid into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of aldosterone into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of any glucocorticoid hormone into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of an androgen into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of testosterone into the circulatory system .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gluconeogenesis ,  by regulation of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
obsolete .any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gluconeogenesis by activating or increasing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
obsolete .any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gluconeogenesis by stopping ,  preventing ,  or reducing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a small molecule ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the regulated release of calcitonin ,  a peptide hormone that participates in calcium and phosphorus metabolism ,  from a cell .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
catalysis of the reaction: glutathione  +  h2o = l - cysteinylglycine  +  l - glutamate .
conversion of vitamin d3 from its largely inactive form  ( calciol ,  also called cholecalciferol )  into a hormonally active form  ( calcitriol )  .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure within a nucleoid .
receiving a signal and transmitting it in the cell to initiate a change in cell activity .
binding specifically to a substance  ( cargo )  to deliver it to a transport vesicle .
combining with a collagen and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity .
a series of molecular signals initiated by collagen binding to a cell surface receptor ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic nuclear division ,  the process in which the nucleus of a diploid cell divides twice forming four haploid cells ,  one or more of which usually function as gametes .
the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving pteridine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catecholamines .
the bidirectional movement of large protein complexes along microtubules within a cilium ,  mediated by motor proteins .
an immune response which is associated with resistance to intracellular bacteria ,  fungi ,  and protozoa ,  and pathological conditions such as arthritis ,  and which is typically orchestrated by the production of particular cytokines by t - helper 1 cells ,  most notably interferon - gamma ,  il - 2 ,  and lymphotoxin .
an immune response which is associated with resistance to extracellular organisms such as helminths and pathological conditions such as allergy ,  which is orchestrated by the production of particular cytokines ,  most notably il - 4 ,  il - 5 ,  il - 10 ,  and il - 13 ,  by any of a variety of cell types including t - helper 2 cells ,  eosinophils ,  basophils ,  mast cells ,  and nuocytes ,  resulting in enhanced production of certain antibody isotypes and other effects .
a protein complex that contains a disulfide - linked heterodimer of t cell receptor  ( tcr )  chains ,  which are members of the immunoglobulin superfamily ,  and mediates antigen recognition ,  ultimately resulting in t cell activation .
a t cell receptor complex in which the tcr heterodimer comprises alpha and beta chains ,  associated with the cd3 complex ;  recognizes a complex consisting of an antigen - derived peptide bound to a class i or class ii mhc protein .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature b cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
a change in morphology and behavior of a macrophage resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving neurotransmitters ,  any of a group of substances that are released on excitation from the axon terminal of a presynaptic neuron of the central or peripheral nervous system and travel across the synaptic cleft to either excite or inhibit the target cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of any of a group of substances that are released on excitation from the axon terminal of a presynaptic neuron of the central or peripheral nervous system and travel across the synaptic cleft to either excite or inhibit the target cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the covalently attached nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the covalently attached nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a neurotransmitter ,  any chemical substance that is capable of transmitting  ( or inhibiting the transmission of )  a nerve impulse from a neuron to another cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ketones ,  a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the periodic casting off and regeneration of an outer covering of cuticle ,  feathers ,  hair ,  horns ,  skin ,  etc .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of fatty acids ,  any of the aliphatic monocarboxylic acids that can be liberated by hydrolysis from naturally occurring fats and oils .
a decrease in the diameter of blood vessels ,  especially arteries ,  due to constriction of smooth muscle cells that line the vessels ,  and usually causing an increase in blood pressure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the duration or quality of sleep ,  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the duration or quality of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to an external stimulus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamin d ,  any of a group of related ,  fat - soluble compounds that are derived from delta - 5 , 7 steroids and play a central role in calcium metabolism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in organic solvents and relatively insoluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of vitamin d ,  any of a group of related ,  fat - soluble compounds that are derived from delta - 5 , 7 steroids and play a central role in calcium metabolism .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a membrane potential ,  the electric potential existing across any membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds derived from amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways occurring at the level of individual cells resulting in the formation of any of a group of naturally occurring ,  biologically active amines ,  such as norepinephrine ,  histamine ,  and serotonin ,  many of which act as neurotransmitters .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of the compounds secreted by the thyroid gland ,  largely thyroxine and triiodothyronine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds that contain an indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  skeleton .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
a tissue - specific ,  membrane - bounded cytoplasmic organelle within which melanin pigments are synthesized and stored .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a dentin - containing tooth over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tooth or teeth over time ,  from formation to the mature structure ( s )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages which are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages that are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages which are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving benzene ,  c6h6 ,  a volatile ,  very inflammable liquid ,  contained in the naphtha produced by the destructive distillation of coal ,  from which it is separated by fractional distillation ,  or any of its derivatives .
the process in which myelin sheaths are formed and maintained around neurons .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any compound containing pteridine  ( pyrazino ( 2 , 3 - dipyrimidine )  )  ,  e .g .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affect the metabolism or behavior of cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
an immunoglobulin complex that is secreted into extracellular space and found in mucosal areas or other tissues or circulating in the blood or lymph .
catalysis of the reaction: rpo - r'  +  h2o = rpooh  +  r'h .
cytoplasmic organelles ,  spherical or oval in shape ,  that are bounded by a single membrane and contain oxidative enzymes ,  especially those utilizing hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
primary lysosomal granule found in neutrophil granulocytes .
a membrane - bounded ,  cytoplasmic secretory granule found in enzyme - secreting cells and visible by light microscopy .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a zymogen granule .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glucose within an organism or cell .
a transmembrane protein complex composed of an mhc alpha chain and ,  in most cases ,  either an mhc class ii beta chain or an invariant beta2 - microglobin chain ,  and with or without a bound peptide ,  lipid ,  or polysaccharide antigen .
a transmembrane protein complex composed of an mhc class ii alpha and mhc class ii beta chain ,  and with or without a bound peptide or polysaccharide antigen .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cholesterol within an organism or cell .
the cyclical phases of growth  ( anagen )  ,  regression  ( catagen )  ,  quiescence  ( telogen )  ,  and shedding  ( exogen )  in the life of a hair ;  one of the collection or mass of filaments growing from the skin of an animal ,  and forming a covering for a part of the head or for any part or the whole of the body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cyclical phases of growth  ( anagen )  ,  regression  ( catagen )  ,  quiescence  ( telogen )  ,  and shedding  ( exogen )  in the life of a hair .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cyclical phases of growth  ( anagen )  ,  regression  ( catagen )  ,  quiescence  ( telogen )  ,  and shedding  ( exogen )  in the life of a hair .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cyclical phases of growth  ( anagen )  ,  regression  ( catagen )  ,  quiescence  ( telogen )  ,  and shedding  ( exogen )  in the life of a hair .
the growth phase of the hair cycle .
the region of a mitochondrion to which the dna is confined .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a muscle cell .
cessation of menstruation ,  occurring in  ( e .g . ) 
the expulsion of seminal fluid ,  thick white fluid containing spermatozoa ,  from the male genital tract .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a drug ,  a substance used in the diagnosis ,  treatment or prevention of a disease .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a bacterium that act to protect the cell or organism .
the cycle from wakefulness through an orderly succession of sleep states and stages that occurs on an approximately 24 hour rhythm .
a stage in the circadian sleep cycle during which dreams occur and the body undergoes marked changes including rapid eye movement ,  loss of reflexes ,  and increased pulse rate and brain activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the circadian sleep / wake cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
the specific behavior of an organism relating to the intake of food ,  any substance  ( usually solid )  that can be metabolized by an organism to give energy and build tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur ,  the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur .
the transport of protons across a mitochondrial membrane to generate an electrochemical gradient  ( proton - motive force )  that powers atp synthesis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of the vitamin b6 compounds: pyridoxal ,  pyridoxamine and pyridoxine and the active form ,  pyridoxal phosphate .
electron - dense granule occurring in blood platelets that stores and secretes adenosine nucleotides and serotonin .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of pyruvate ,  2 - oxopropanoate .
the directed movement of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptotic process .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a prolongation or process extending from a nerve cell ,  e .g .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the embryo over time ,  from zygote formation through a stage including a notochord and neural tube until birth or egg hatching .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the camera - type eye over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a monocyte acquires the specialized features of a dendritic cell ,  an immunocompetent cell of the lymphoid and hemopoietic systems and skin .
a enzyme complex of which the core is a heterodimer composed of a light  ( alpha )  and heavy  ( beta )  chain ,  and requires several other water - soluble proteins of cytosolic origin for activity .
any process that modulates the frequency or rate of macrophage activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage activation .
any process that stimulates ,  induces or increases the rate of macrophage activation .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of peptides ,  compounds of 2 or more  ( but usually less than 100 )  amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of structures in the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
the hardening ,  enlarging and rising of the penis which often occurs in the sexually aroused male and enables sexual intercourse .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab signaling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of  - kappab kinase / nf - kappab signaling .
any process involved in the maintenance of a steady - state level of the surface - active lipoprotein mixture which coats the alveoli .
any process in which proteins and protein complexes involved in translation are transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with ions ,  charged atoms or groups of atoms .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with anions ,  charged atoms or groups of atoms with a net negative charge .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an organic acid ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process of preserving the structure and function of mature myelin .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring outside the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the internal volume enclosed by the membranes of a particular organelle ;  includes the volume enclosed by a single organelle membrane ,  e .g .
any protein complex that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex disassembly ,  the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex disassembly ,  the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex disassembly ,  the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
fibers ,  composed of actin ,  myosin ,  and associated proteins ,  found in cells of smooth or striated muscle .
the process of sparing immature t cells which react with self - mhc protein complexes with low affinity levels from apoptotic death .
a receptor complex found on immature t cells consisting of a t cell receptor beta chain and the pre - tcr - alpha chain ,  along with additional signaling components including cd3 family members and additional signaling proteins .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that stops or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
the regulated release of cortisol ,  a steroid hormone that in humans is the major circulating hormone of the cortex ,  or outer layer ,  of the adrenal gland .
a series of molecular signals mediated by a steroid hormone binding to a receptor .
the covalent alteration of one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
the covalent attachment of a glycosyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any oxoacid ;  an oxoacid is a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular respiration ,  the enzymatic release of energy from organic compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and the processes involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates .
the accumulation of pigment in an organism ,  tissue or cell ,  either by increased deposition or by increased number of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna splicing ,  the process of removing sections of the primary rna transcript to remove sequences not present in the mature form of the rna and joining the remaining sections to form the mature form of the rna .
the process of restoring mitochondrial dna after damage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with dna of a specific nucleotide composition ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skin over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dicarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing two carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glyceraldehyde 3 - phosphate  +  phosphate  +  nad ( p )  +  = 3 - phospho - d - glyceroyl phosphate  +  nad ( p ) h  +  h +  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of symbiosis ,  an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
the formation or growth of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone ,  involved in response to injury or other physical ,  physiological or environmental stress stimuli .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a protein complex .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucans ,  polysaccharides consisting only of glucose residues .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of an endocrine process ,  a process involving the secretion of or response to endocrine hormones .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of excretion ,  the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a respiratory system process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the respiratory system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom ,  carried out at the level of an individual cell .
the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving polysaccharides ,  polymers of more than 10 monosaccharide residues joined by glycosidic linkages ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the directed movement of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell as a result of an insulin stimulus .
a process carried out by gene products in an organism that enable the organism to engage in a symbiotic relationship ,  a more or less intimate association ,  with another organism .
any process evolved to enable an interaction with an organism of a different species .
obsolete .any constituent part of the extracellular matrix ,  the structure lying external to one or more cells ,  which provides structural support for cells or tissues ;  may be completely external to the cell  ( as in animals )  or be part of the cell  ( as often seen in plants )  .
obsolete .any constituent part of the extracellular region ,  the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
obsolete .any constituent part of an organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
obsolete .any constituent part of the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
obsolete .any constituent part of a membrane ,  a double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells ,  and ,  in eukaryotes ,  many organelles ;  may be a single or double lipid bilayer ;  also includes associated proteins .
obsolete .any constituent part of a chromosome ,  a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
obsolete .any constituent part of the nucleus ,  a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
obsolete .any constituent part of a mitochondrion ,  a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
obsolete .any constituent part of the golgi apparatus ,  a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
obsolete .any constituent part of cytoplasmic vesicle ,  a vesicle formed of membrane or protein ,  found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
obsolete .any constituent part of a vacuole ,  a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
obsolete .any constituent part of a microbody ,  a cytoplasmic organelle ,  spherical or oval in shape ,  that is bounded by a single membrane and contains oxidative enzymes ,  especially those utilizing hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
obsolete .any constituent part of a peroxisome ,  a small ,  membrane - bounded organelle that uses dioxygen  ( o2 )  to oxidize organic molecules ;  contains some enzymes that produce and others that degrade hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
obsolete .any constituent part of the cytoplasm ,  all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
obsolete .any constituent part of cytosol ,  that part of the cytoplasm that does not contain membranous or particulate subcellular components .
obsolete .a constituent part of an intracellular organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
obsolete .any constituent part of the cell cortex ,  the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
obsolete .any constituent part of a contractile fiber ,  a fiber composed of actin ,  myosin ,  and associated proteins ,  found in cells of smooth or striated muscle .
obsolete .any constituent part of a nucleolus ,  a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
obsolete .any constituent part of a nuclear chromosome ,  a chromosome that encodes the nuclear genome and is found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell during the cell cycle phases when the nucleus is intact .
obsolete .any constituent part of a mitochondrial membrane ,  either of the lipid bilayers that surround the mitochondrion and form the mitochondrial envelope .
obsolete .any constituent part of a synapse ,  the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell .
obsolete .any constituent part of the plasma membrane ,  the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cell projection ,  a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals ,  involving another organism .
a multicellular organism process which involves another multicellular organism of the same or different species .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
a distinct period or stage in a biological process or cycle .
the cyclical periods of growth  ( anagen )  ,  regression  ( catagen )  ,  quiescence  ( telogen )  ,  and shedding  ( exogen )  in the life of a hair ;  one of the collection or mass of filaments growing from the skin of an animal ,  and forming a covering for a part of the head or for any part or the whole of the body .
a membrane raft that is part of the plasma membrane .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a macromolecular complex .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycerolipids ,  any lipid with a glycerol backbone .
the process in which t cells that express t cell receptors that are restricted by self mhc protein complexes and tolerant to self antigens are selected for further maturation .
the process of t cell selection that occurs in the thymus .
innate immune responses are defense responses mediated by germline encoded components that directly recognize components of potential pathogens .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
the directed movement of azoles ,  heterocyclic compounds found in many biologically important substances ,  across a lipid bilayer ,  across a membrane .
any of the small  ( 10 - 200 nm )  ,  heterogeneous ,  highly dynamic ,  sterol -  and sphingolipid - enriched membrane domains that compartmentalize cellular processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone tissue loss  ( resorption )  .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during m phase of the meiotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and randomly apportioned to two sets during the second division of the meiotic cell cycle .
the commitment of cells to specific cell fates and their capacity to differentiate into particular kinds of cells .
signaling at long or short range between cells that results in the commitment of a cell to a certain fate .
any molecular function involved in the initiation ,  activation ,  perpetuation ,  repression or termination of polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sleep ;  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
the switching of activated b cells from igm biosynthesis to biosynthesis of other isotypes of immunoglobulin ,  accomplished through a recombination process involving an intrachromosomal deletion involving switch regions that reside 5' of each constant region gene segment in the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching .
the junction between an axon of one neuron and a dendrite of another neuron ,  a muscle fiber or a glial cell .
a specialized area of membrane facing the presynaptic membrane on the tip of the nerve ending and separated from it by a minute cleft  ( the synaptic cleft )  .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of external structures that lie outside the plasma membrane and surround the entire cell .
complex that carries out the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate to form acetyl - coa ;  comprises subunits possessing three catalytic activities: pyruvate dehydrogenase  ( e1 )  ,  dihydrolipoamide s - acetyltransferase  ( e2 )  ,  and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase  ( e3 )  .
complex that carries out the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate to form acetyl - coa ;  comprises subunits possessing three catalytic activities: pyruvate dehydrogenase  ( e1 )  ,  dihydrolipoamide s - acetyltransferase  ( e2 )  ,  and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase  ( e3 )  .
a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex that catalyzes the phosphorylation of adp to atp during oxidative phosphorylation .
a proton - transporting atp synthase complex found in the plasma membrane .
respiratory chain complex i is an enzyme of the respiratory chain .
a subcomplex of the respiratory chain located in the plasma membrane .
a protein complex that transfers electrons from ubiquinol to cytochrome c and translocates two protons across a membrane .
a part of the respiratory chain located in the plasma membrane ,  containing about 10 polypeptide subunits including four redox centers: cytochrome b / b6 ,  cytochrome c1 and an 2fe - 2s cluster .
a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the enzymatic release of energy from inorganic and organic compounds  ( especially carbohydrates and fats )  which either requires oxygen  ( aerobic respiration )  or does not  ( anaerobic respiration )  .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an adipocyte ,  an animal connective tissue cell specialized for the synthesis and storage of fat .
the process in which specialized cells known as osteoclasts degrade the organic and inorganic portions of bone ,  and endocytose and transport the degradation products .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cholesterol .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cholesterol .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cholesterol .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mast cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  soluble factor ,  or to  ( at least in mammals )  an antigen which the mast cell has specifically bound via ige bound to fc - epsilonri receptors .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation ,  the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and functional features .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of adipocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of adipocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of adipocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of keratinocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of keratinocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of keratinocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of basophil differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of basophil differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of basophil differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of megakaryocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of megakaryocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of megakaryocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of monocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of monocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of monocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoblast differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoblast differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoblast differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoclast differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoclast differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoclast differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermis development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermis development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermis development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermatid nuclear differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermatid nuclear differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermatid nuclear differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of fatty acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gluconeogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gluconeogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of fatty acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a cilium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna or circrna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna repair .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna repair .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone resorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone resorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoid .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving pteridine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving pteridine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational termination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational termination .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasoconstriction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasoconstriction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catecholamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catecholamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of complement activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of complement activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of sleep ,  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleobases .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine bases .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyrimidine nucleobases .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyrimidine nucleobases .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving adp ,  adenosine 5' - diphosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving atp ,  adenosine triphosphate ,  a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving xanthine ,  2 , 6 - dihydroxypurine ,  a purine formed in the metabolic breakdown of guanine but not present in nucleic acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tetrahydrobiopterin ,  the reduced form of biopterin  ( 2 - amino - 4 - hydroxy - 6 -  ( 1 , 2 - dihydroxypropyl )  - pteridine )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a polyol ,  any alcohol containing three or more hydroxyl groups attached to saturated carbon atoms .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a phenol ,  any compound containing one or more hydroxyl groups directly attached to an aromatic carbon ring .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid oxidation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid oxidation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid oxidation .
the directed movement of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of monosaccharides ,  polyhydric alcohols containing either an aldehyde or a keto group and between three to ten or more carbon atoms .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ribose phosphate ,  any phosphorylated ribose sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  (  - cooh )  groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  (  - cooh )  groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organophosphates ,  any phosphate - containing organic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of membrane lipids ,  any lipid found in or associated with a biological membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycerophospholipids ,  any derivative of glycerophosphate that contains at least one o - acyl ,  o - alkyl ,  or o - alkenyl group attached to the glycerol residue .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ether lipids ,  lipids that contain  ( normally )  one lipid alcohol in ether linkage to one of the carbon atoms  ( normally c - 1 )  of glycerol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycerolipids ,  any lipid with a glycerol backbone .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphatidylinositol ,  any glycophospholipid in which a sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate residue is esterified to the 1 - hydroxyl group of 1d - myo - inositol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving nicotinamide nucleotides ,  any nucleotide that contains combined nicotinamide .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycerol ethers ,  any anhydride formed between two organic hydroxy compounds ,  one of which is glycerol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ras protein signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ras protein signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ras protein signal transduction .
a change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving folic acid ,  pteroylglutamic acid .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a carbohydrate ,  any organic compound based on the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the continuous turnover of bone matrix and mineral that involves first ,  an increase in resorption  ( osteoclastic activity )  and later ,  reactive bone formation  ( osteoblastic activity )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone remodeling ,  the processes of bone formation and resorption that combine to maintain skeletal integrity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone remodeling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone remodeling .
enables the transfer of metal ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
the regulated release of hormones ,  substances with a specific regulatory effect on a particular organ or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hormones .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hormones .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell or a tissue .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
enables the transfer of transition metal ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of transition metal ions at the level of a cell .
a protein complex providing a discrete opening in a membrane that allows the passage of gases and / or liquids .
the process of introducing one or more phosphate groups into a nucleotide to produce a phosphorylated nucleoside .
the directed movement of carboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
enables the transfer of carboxylic acids from one side of a membrane to the other .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ketone bodies ,  any one of the three substances: acetoacetate ,  d - 3 - hydroxybutyrate  ( beta - hydroxybutyrate )  or acetone ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of ketone bodies ,  any one of the three substances: acetoacetate ,  d - 3 - hydroxybutyrate  ( beta - hydroxybutyrate )  or acetone .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - nh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a flavin .
catalysis of the reaction: nadp +   +  testosterone = nadph  +  h +   +  androst - 4 - ene - 3 , 17 - dione .
catalysis of the reaction: cytolipin - h  +  cmp - n - acetylneuraminate = alpha - n - acetylneuraminyl - 2 , 3 - beta - d - galactosyl - 1 , 4 - beta - d - glucosylceramide  +  cmp .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( 6s )  - 6beta - hydroxy - 1 , 4 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydronicotinamide adenine dinucleotide  +  atp = adp  +  3 h (  +  )   +  nadh  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: cholesterol  +  nadp +  = cholesta - 5 , 7 - dien - 3 - beta - ol  +  nadph  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: biotin amide  +  h2o = biotin  +  nh3 .
catalysis of the reaction: n , n - dimethylglycine  +  electron - transfer flavoprotein  +  h2o = sarcosine  +  formaldehyde  +  reduced electron - transfer flavoprotein .
the activity of a gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor .
the self - renewing division of a somatic stem cell ,  a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
the meiotic divisions undergone by the primary and secondary spermatocytes to produce haploid spermatids .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within the golgi apparatus ,  mediated by vesicles .
the process in which vesicles are directed to specific destination membranes during transport to ,  from or within the golgi apparatus ;  mediated by the addition of specific coat proteins ,  including copi and copii proteins and clathrin ,  to the membrane during vesicle formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or destination of vesicle - mediated transport to ,  from or within the golgi apparatus .
generation of the male gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a female gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
a process required for sperm to reach fertilization competence .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis ,  the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis ,  the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis ,  the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
the creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a cell to attain its fully functional state .
any process pertinent to the generation and maintenance of rhythms in the physiology of an organism .
the specific behavior of an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
development of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
the process in which the anatomical structures of blood vessels are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of any organ involved in hematopoiesis  ( also known as hemopoiesis )  or lymphoid cell activation over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the digestive tract over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the eye are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the eye are generated and organized .
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
the process ,  occurring above the cellular level ,  that is pertinent to the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle development .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of muscle development .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which the structures of a neuron are generated and organized .
the process in which nerve cells are generated .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tissue are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a gland over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of cardiac muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a mesenchymal cell .
a small ,  subcellular membrane - bounded vesicle containing pigment and / or pigment precursor molecules .
the reorganization or renovation of existing tissues .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a neuron projection are generated and organized .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hair follicle maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hair follicle maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hair follicle maturation .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a hair follicle to attain its fully functional state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of arterial blood vessels are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of venous blood vessels are generated and organized .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a cell projection are generated and organized .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a stem cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the stem cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the multicellular organism .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a population of cells .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a population of cells in a tissue .
any process involved in the maintenance of the internal steady state of the amount of a chemical at the level of the tissue .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a sensory system over time from its formation to the mature structure .
catalysis of the reaction: sugar phosphate  +  h2o = sugar  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: h2o  +  sugar phosphorylated on the terminal carbon = a sugar  +  phosphate .
the regulated release of catecholamines by a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of catecholamines .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which nadh or nadph acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces an oxygen molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving homocysteine ,  the amino acid alpha - amino - gamma - mercaptobutanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving homocysteine ,  the amino acid alpha - amino - gamma - mercaptobutanoic acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving homocysteine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving homocysteine .
the multiplication or reproduction of epithelial cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response ,  the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipoproteins ,  any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipoproteins ,  any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipoproteins ,  any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis ,  the process in which phagocytes engulf external particulate material .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells in the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis ,  the generation of an axon ,  the long process of a neuron .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions within an organism or cell .
the part of the circadian sleep / wake cycle where the organism is asleep .
any process that modulates the frequency or amplitude of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the process in which a fluid solution ,  or part of it ,  changes into a solid or semisolid mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation ,  the process in which a fluid solution ,  or part of it ,  changes into a solid or semisolid mass .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cell adhesion molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation ,  the change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system .
any process that modulates the levels of body fluids .
any process in which an organism voluntarily modulates its posture ,  the alignment of its anatomical parts .
any process that an organism uses to control its balance ,  the orientation of the organism  ( or the head of the organism )  in relation to the source of gravity .
the process that involves the secretion of or response to endocrine hormones .
the operation of the mind by which an organism becomes aware of objects of thought or perception ;  it includes the mental activities associated with thinking ,  learning ,  and memory .
any process in which nutrients are taken up from the contents of the intestine .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the movement of a leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
any process pertaining to the functions of the nervous and muscular systems of an organism .
the series of events involved in sensory perception in which a sensory stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in visual perception in which a light stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory light stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory mechanical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an orientational stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events in which a light stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal as part of the sensory perception of light .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a touch stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription involved in the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of small gtpase mediated signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of small gtpase mediated signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of small gtpase mediated signal transduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activity of the transcription factor nf - kappab .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
enables the transfer of a sugar from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a striated muscle cell ;  striated muscle fibers are divided by transverse bands into striations ,  and cardiac and voluntary muscle are types of striated muscle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
the directed movement of vitamins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
obsolete .the directed movement of a cofactor into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
obsolete .the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor ,  a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein .
obsolete .the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a cofactor ,  a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor .
obsolete .any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor .
obsolete .any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a coenzyme .
obsolete .any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a coenzyme .
obsolete .any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a coenzyme .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cartilage element over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process in which a cell ,  substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is maintained in a location and prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the cellular defense response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
the process resulting in division and partitioning of components of a cell to form more cells ;  may or may not be accompanied by the physical separation of a cell into distinct ,  individually membrane - bounded daughter cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells .
progression through the phases of the meiotic cell cycle ,  in which canonically a cell replicates to produce four offspring with half the chromosomal content of the progenitor cell via two nuclear divisions .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
the series of events contributing to equilibrioception by which an organism senses the position ,  location ,  orientation ,  and movement of the body and its parts .
the series of events during equilibrioception required for an organism to receive a visual stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
the regulated release of corticotropin by a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of corticotropic hormone from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of corticotropic hormone from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of corticotropin hormone from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of cortisol from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of cortisol from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of cortisol from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the cytoplasm of a cell or between mitochondria and their surroundings .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
the series of events in which a stimulus is received by a cell or organism and converted into a molecular signal .
the directed movement of histamine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process in which an organelle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process in which a vesicle or vesicles are transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process ,  occuring in a cell ,  that localizes a substance or cellular component .
the directed movement of a vesicle to a specific location .
the directed movement of an organelle to a specific location .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a membrane .
any process in which a cell is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
obsolete .any process in which an organism has a behavioral effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hair follicle development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hair follicle development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hair follicle development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of timing of anagen ,  the growth phase of the hair cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of timing of anagen ,  the growth phase of the hair cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of timing of anagen ,  the growth phase of the hair cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the sensory perception of pain ,  the series of events required for an organism to receive a painful stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception ,  the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the directed movement of catecholamines ,  a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving imidazoles ,  five - membered organic heterocycle containing two nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 3 ,  or any of its derivatives ;  compounds containing an imidazole skeleton .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( r )  - nadhx =  ( s )  - nadhx .
the process in which a cardiac muscle precursor cell acquires specialized features of a cardiac muscle cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue development .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue development .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of copper ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of iron ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of transition metal ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of sodium ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of anions within an organism or cell .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical at the level of the cell .
the process in which a solute is transported across a lipid bilayer ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase - containing small molecule: a nucleobase ,  a nucleoside ,  or a nucleotide .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of lipid within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of sterol within an organism or cell .
obsolete .a metabolic process that results in the removal or addition of one or more electrons to or from a substance ,  with or without the concomitant removal or addition of a proton or protons .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the digestive system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
an automatic response to a stimulus beginning with a nerve impulse from a receptor and ending with the action of an effector such as a gland or a muscle .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pharyngeal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the multicellular organismal process in which the heart decreases in volume in a characteristic way to propel blood through the body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein glycosylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the glycosylation of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the glycosylation of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation ,  contributing to the restoration of integrity to a damaged tissue following an injury .
the regulation of body fluids process in which parasympathetic nerves stimulate the bladder wall muscle to contract and expel urine from the body .
any process that modulates the potential difference across a post - synaptic membrane .
a process that leads to a temporary increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
the process of communication from a neuron to a smooth muscle in the bladder that contributes to the expulsion of urine from the body .
a compound molecular function in which an effector function is controlled by one or more regulatory components .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together two or more molecules through a selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric interaction ,  permitting those molecules to function in a coordinated way .
the assembly ,  arrangement ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures that is involved in the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of growth hormone from a cell .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of growth hormone from a cell .
any process that decreases or stops the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of growth hormone from a cell .
a reproductive process occurring in the embryo or fetus that allows the embryo or fetus to develop within the mother .
a reflex that occurs in response to suckling ,  beginning with a nerve impulse from a receptor in the mammary gland and ending with the ejection of milk from the gland .
signaling at short range between the head ectoderm and the optic vesicle that results in the head ectoderm forming a lens .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state within a defined anatomical structure of an organism ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the behavior associated with the intake of food .
the assembly of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
cell motility due to the motion of one or more eukaryotic cilia .
movement of cilia mediated by motor proteins that contributes to the movement of a cell .
any process that modulates the rate frequency or extent of cilium movement involved in ciliary motility .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the activity of a molecule that controls the survival ,  growth ,  differentiation and effector function of tissues and cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the activity of a molecule that controls the survival ,  growth ,  differentiation and effector function of tissues and cells .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the activity of a molecule that controls the survival ,  growth ,  differentiation and effector function of tissues and cells .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a head from an initial condition to its mature state .
the directed movement of a motile cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of bone over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a mast cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of mast cell differentiation ,  the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a mast cell .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mast cell differentiation ,  the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a mast cell .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mast cell differentiation ,  the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a mast cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of penile erection .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of penile erection .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate ,  frequency or extent of penile erection .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of fertilization .
the process in which the controlled movement of a flagellated sperm cell is initiated as part of the process required for flagellated sperm to reach fertilization competence .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a mesenchymal tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell projection assembly .
the progression of muscle tissue over time ,  from its initial formation to its mature state .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that modulates the rate frequency or extent of a vitamin d biosynthetic process .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a vitamin d biosynthetic process .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of an anatomical structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized from an epithelium .
the process in which a mesenchymal cell ,  acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a chondroblast .
creation of the central hole of a tube in an anatomical structure by sealing the edges of an epithelial fold .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a mammary gland mesenchymal cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of chromosome condensation ,  the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of vesicle - mediated transport ,  the directed movement of substances ,  either within a vesicle or in the vesicle membrane ,  into ,  out of or within a cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of microtubule - based movement ,  the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules and other particles along microtubules ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another and contributes to the progression of the mammary gland ,  from its initial state to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the androgen receptor signaling pathway .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the androgen receptor signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation resulting in the maintenance of a steady - state number of cells within a tissue .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptosis that results in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation that contributes to the maintenance of a steady state of a cell type within a tissue .
the progression of the artery over time ,  from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the venous blood vessel over time from its initial formation to the mature structure .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the commitment of a cell to a specific fate .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another that will contribute to the progression of the heart over time ,  from its initial formation ,  to the mature organ .
the regulated release of a hormone into the circulatory system .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cartilage development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cartilage over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cartilage development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cartilage over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cartilage development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cartilage over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the progression of a muscle structure over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin that contributes to the response of a cell to glucose .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin that contributes to the response of a cell to glucose .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a cardiac neural crest cell that will migrate to the heart and contribute to its development .
the process aimed at the progression of a cardiac neural crest cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell that contributes to the development of the heart .
any series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a receptor on the surface of a cell to a physiological ligand ,  which contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
transfer of an organized electrical impulse across the heart to coordinate the contraction of cardiac muscles .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of testosterone ,  an androgen having 17beta - hydroxy and 3 - oxo groups ,  together with unsaturation at c - 4 c - 5 .
the progression of a connective tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a cilium .
catalysis of the reaction: udp - glucose  +   ( 1 , 4 )  - alpha - d - glucosyl ( n )  = ump  +   ( 1 , 4 )  - alpha - d - glucosyl ( n )  - glucose - 1 - phosphate .
the progression of an axon over time .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a monosaccharide into pyruvate ,  occurring through a fructose - 6 - phosphate intermediate ,  with the concomitant production of atp and nadh .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a carbohydrate into pyruvate ,  occurring through a glucose - 6 - phosphate intermediate ,  with the concomitant production of a small amount of atp .
the chemical reactions and pathways through a glucose - 1 - phosphate intermediate that result in the catabolism of a carbohydrate into pyruvate ,  with the concomitant production of a small amount of atp .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a pharyngeal arch artery is generated and organized .
a cytosolic protein complex that is capable of activating caspase - 1 .
an immune response against microbes mediated by anti - microbial peptides in body fluid .
a process that coontributes to the second meiotic division .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
an extracellular matrix consisting mainly of proteins  ( especially collagen )  and glycosaminoglycans  ( mostly as proteoglycans )  that provides not only essential physical scaffolding for the cellular constituents but can also initiate crucial biochemical and biomechanical cues required for tissue morphogenesis ,  differentiation and homeostasis .
any process that starts or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial gene expression .
the series of events involved in the perception of pain in which a stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of macromolecules to form a protein - containing complex .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the hydroxyl group of a threonine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond not more than three residues from the n -  or c - terminus of a polypeptide chain by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue  ( e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a single n - terminal amino acid residue from a polypeptide chain by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue  ( e .g .
an organelle lumen that is part of an intracellular organelle .
a protein complex in which at least one of the proteins is a cytochrome ,  i .e .
the regulated release of the aqueous layer of the tear film from the lacrimal glands .
the covalent attachment and further modification of carbohydrate residues to a substrate molecule .
the regulated release of glucagon from secretory granules in the a  ( alpha )  cells of the pancreas  ( islets of langerhans )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of glucagon .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of glucagon .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of glucagon .
the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in a mitochondrion .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis in a mitochondrion .
the process resulting in the release of a polypeptide chain from the ribosome in a mitochondrion ,  usually in response to a termination codon  ( note that mitochondria use variants of the universal genetic code that differ between different taxa )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna in a mitochondrion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna in a mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna in a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in a mitochondrion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in a mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in a mitochondrion .
a cell junction that mechanically attaches a cell  ( and its cytoskeleton )  to neighboring cells or to the extracellular matrix .
a process of chromosome organization that is involved in a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
the regulated release of somatostatin from secretory granules in the d cells of the pancreas .
the regulated release of mucus by the mucosa .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of mucus from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of mucus from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of mucus from a cell or a tissue .
the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix ,  including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell .
a renal system process in which water ,  ions ,  glucose and proteins are taken up from the collecting ducts ,  glomerulus and proximal and distal loops of the nephron .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with thyroxine  ( t4 )  or triiodothyronine  ( t3 )  ,  tyrosine - based hormones produced by the thyroid gland .
the directed movement of thyroid hormone into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the reduction of an aliphatic ring to yield an aromatic ring .
the protein complexes that form the electron transport system  ( the respiratory chain )  ,  associated with a cell membrane ,  usually the plasma membrane  ( in prokaryotes )  or the inner mitochondrial membrane  ( on eukaryotes )  .
a respiratory chain located in the plasma membrane of a cell ;  made up of the protein complexes that form the electron transport system  ( the respiratory chain )  ,  associated with the plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a vitamin d receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitamin d receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the vitamin d receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitamin d receptor signaling pathway activity .
a process in which a calcium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein processing ,  any protein maturation process achieved by the cleavage of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( s )  - 2 -  ( 5 - amino - 1 -  ( 5 - phospho - d - ribosyl ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamido ) succinate = fumarate  +  5 - amino - 1 -  ( 5 - phospho - d - ribosyl ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamin d3 ,   ( 3s , 5z , 7e )  - 9 , 10 - secocholesta - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 )  - trien - 3 - ol .
catalysis of the hydroxylation of c - 25 of any form of vitamin d .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of bile acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of bile acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of bile acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a dna repair process that is initiated by an endonuclease that introduces a single - strand incision immediately 5' of a uv - induced damage site .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an organelle .
catalysis of the reaction: acyl - coa  +  acceptor = 2 , 3 - dehydroacyl - coa  +  reduced acceptor ,  where the acyl group is a medium - chain fatty acid residue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phospholipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phospholipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phospholipids .
a cellular process that results in a change in the spatial configuration of a dna molecule .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the movement of a granulocyte in response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of granulocyte chemotaxis .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of granulocyte chemotaxis .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of granulocyte chemotaxis .
the behavior in which an organism produces sounds by a mechanism involving its respiratory system .
any process in which a protein is transported from one specific location in the extracellular region to another ,  or maintained in a specific extracellular location .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an anatomical structure to attain its fully functional state .
the progression of an ectodermal placode over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the directed movement of organic substances into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the directed movement of nitrogen - containing compounds into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which immunoglobulin heavy chain v ,  d ,  and j gene segments are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
the process in which immunoglobulin light chain v and j gene segments are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of an igg isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igd isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the ige isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the iga isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and sometimes complexed with j chain or j chain and secretory component .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igm isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and in its circulating form complexed with j chain in polymeric forms .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a protein - lipid complex .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a ribonucleoprotein complex .
a protein - lipid complex subunit organization process that results in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a plasma lipoprotein particle .
the disaggregation of a plasma lipoprotein particle into its constituent components .
the process in which a triglyceride - rich lipoprotein particle is removed from the blood via receptor - mediated endocytosis and its constituent parts degraded .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
a nitrogen compound metabolic process that contributes to the nitrogen cycle .
the part of a cell encompassing the cell cortex ,  the plasma membrane ,  and any external encapsulating structures .
an supramolecular fiber that consists of an insoluble core of polymerized tropoelastin monomers and a surrounding mantle of microfibrils .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an extracellular vesicular exosome ,  a membrane - bounded vesicle that is released into the extracellular region by fusion of the limiting endosomal membrane of a multivesicular body with the plasma membrane .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an epithelial tube .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  (  - cooh )  group .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  (  - cooh )  group .
the directed movement of compounds that contain sulfur ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dicarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing three carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the circulatory system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis by modulating the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis by stopping ,  preventing ,  or reducing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis by activating or increasing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular ketone metabolic process by modulating the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular ketone metabolic process by stopping ,  preventing ,  or reducing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular ketone metabolic process by activating or increasing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid transport by modulating the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid transport by stopping ,  preventing ,  or reducing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid transport by activating or increasing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
a response to a stimulus that consists of a sequential series of modifications to a set of proteins where the product of one reaction acts catalytically in the following reaction .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations within an organism or cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pyridine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pyridine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pyrimidine - containing compound ,  i .e .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular response to stress .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of amino acid within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cysteine within an organism or cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of fertilization .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another and contributes to the heart process that regulates cardiac muscle contraction ;  beginning with the generation of an action potential in the sinoatrial node and ending with regulation of contraction of the myocardium .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings that contributes to the process of cardiac conduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil chemotaxis .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil chemotaxis .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil chemotaxis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroid hormones , compounds with a 1 ,  2 ,  cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus that act as hormones .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroid hormones , compounds with a 1 ,  2 ,  cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus that act as hormones .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroid hormones , compounds with a 1 ,  2 ,  cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus that act as hormones .
any process that modulates the size of an anatomical structure .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process in which mitochondrial dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of sphingolipid biosynthesis .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of sphingolipid biosynthesis .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of sphingolipid biosynthesis .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  extent of the regulated release of somatostatin from secretory granules in the d cells of the pancreas .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  extent of the regulated release of somatostatin from secretory granules in the d cells of the pancreas .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  extent of the regulated release of somatostatin from secretory granules in the d cells of the pancreas .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the regulated release of a peptide hormone from secretory granules .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the regulated release of a peptide hormone from secretory granules .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the regulated release of a peptide hormone from secretory granules .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleic acids .
the nucleic acid metabolic process in which the phosphodiester bonds between nucleotides are cleaved by hydrolysis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the phosphorylation of adp to atp that accompanies the oxidation of a metabolite through the operation of the respiratory chain .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving tryptophan ,  the chiral amino acid 2 - amino - 3 -  ( 1h - indol - 3 - yl ) propanoic acid .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving tryptophan ,  the chiral amino acid 2 - amino - 3 -  ( 1h - indol - 3 - yl ) propanoic acid .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving ornithine ,  an amino acid only rarely found in proteins ,  but which is important in living organisms as an intermediate in the reactions of the urea cycle and in arginine biosynthesis .
any process that prevents the establishment or decreases the extent of the excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  which is a temporary increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the biosynthesis of deoxyribose phosphate ,  the phosphorylated sugar 2 - deoxy - erythro - pentose .
enables the transfer of a vitamin from one side of a membrane to the other .
the immediate defensive reaction by vertebrate tissue to injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
morphogenesis of a sensory organ .
a protein complex containing at least one glycosylated protein ,  may be held together by both covalent and noncovalent bonds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a storage polysaccharide into pyruvate through a glucose - 1 - phosphate intermediate ,  with the concomitant production of a small amount of atp and the reduction of nad to nadh .
any process involved in the maintenance of internal levels of plasma lipoprotein particles within an organism .
all of the contents of a cilium ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the cilium .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a dendritic cell .
a specialized area of membrane on either the presynaptic or the postsynaptic side of a synapse ,  the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an organic cyclic compound ,  any molecular entity that contains carbon arranged in a cyclic molecular structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the formation of tooth enamel ,  occurring in two stages: secretory stage and maturation stage .
a series of molecular signals which triggers the apoptotic death of a cell .
a stage of the apoptotic process that starts with the controlled breakdown of the cell through the action of effector caspases or other effector molecules  ( e .g .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the multiplication or reproduction of melanocytes ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
obsolete .any constituent part of a neuron ,  the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
the process in which the migration of a neuron projection is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the covalent attachment of sialic acid to a substrate molecule .
the movement of a myeloid leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
the movement of a granulocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of nucleic acid  ( dna or rna )  .
an activity that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the activity of an iron ion transmembrane transporter .
any vesicle that is part of the intracellular region .
the docking of a cytosolic centriole / basal body to the plasma membrane via the ciliary transition fibers .
the process in which vesicles formed at the trans - golgi network are directed to the plasma membrane surrounding the base of the cilium ,  including the ciliary pocket ,  mediated by molecules at the vesicle membrane and target membrane surfaces .
any process involved in the controlled movement of a sperm cell .
the assembly and secretion of an extracellular exosome ,  a membrane - bounded vesicle that is released into the extracellular region by fusion of the limiting endosomal membrane of a multivesicular body with the plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the diameter of blood vessels .
obsolete .any process that increases the diameter of blood vessels .
obsolete .any process that decreases the diameter of blood vessels .
a dna - binding transcription factor activity regulated by binding to a ligand and that modulates the transcription of specific gene sets .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of another organism that act to protect the cell or organism from damage caused by that organism .
the component of the mitochondrial membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the lipid bilayer that forms the outer - most layer of an organelle .
a membrane that is a  ( regional )  part of the plasma membrane .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on a cell surface to an adhesion molecule on another cell surface ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to the external substrate or to another cell .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on the cell surface to an extracellular matrix component ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to another cell .
a supramolecular assembly of fibrillar collagen complexes in the form of a long fiber  ( fibril )  with transverse striations  ( bands )  .
a complex of collagen trimers such as a fibril or collagen network .
a supramolecular assembly of collagen trimers with a 'beads on a string' - like structure .
any collagen timer that is part of a basement membrane .
the process in which a cation is transported across a membrane .
the process in which an anion is transported across a membrane .
the directed movement of some substance from outside of a cell into a cell .
the process in which an inorganic ion is transported across a membrane .
the process in which an inorganic anion is transported across a membrane .
a process in which an inorganic cation is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
obsolete .a regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in regulation of carbohydrate catabloism .
any subdivision of a chromosome along its length .
any process that reduces or removes the toxicity of a toxic substance .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of inorganic ions within an organism or cell .
a molecular function that modulates the activity of a gene product or complex .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skin epidermis over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the part of a synapse that is part of the presynaptic cell .
the part of a synapse that is part of the post - synaptic cell .
any protein complex that is part of a membrane .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane .
a protein complex that is part of a mitochondrion .
any protein complex that is part of the inner mitochondrial membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by the renal system .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane and which functions as a signaling receptor .
any protein complex that is part of a respiratory chain .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of nuclear chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  .
the directed movement of a protein along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any process in which lipids are taken up from the contents of the intestine .
a membrane region with a lipid composition that is distinct from that of the membrane regions that surround it .
any process carried out at the cellular level that reduces or removes the toxicity superoxide radicals or hydrogen peroxide .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
cell - cell signaling from pre to post - synapse ,  across the synaptic cleft .
the component of the postsynaptic membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
neurotransmitter receptor activity occuring in the postsynaptic membrane during synaptic transmission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurotransmitter receptor activity involved in synaptic transmission .
the postsynapse of a neuromuscular junction .
synaptic transmission that results in an excitatory postsynaptic potential .
any vesicle - mediated transport that occurs in a synapse .
any signal transduction pathway involving calmodulin dependent kinase activity .
any protein complex that plays a role in vesicle tethering .
an infolding of the plasma membrane .
the component of the postsynaptic membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
a cellular component that consists of an indeterminate number of proteins or macromolecular complexes ,  organized into a regular ,  higher - order structure such as a polymer ,  sheet ,  network or a fiber .
a polymeric supramolecular structure .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an inorganic cation by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
modulates the activity of a channel via direct interaction with it .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of proteins .
the regulated release of dopamine from an axon .
any process ,  acting in the postsynapse that results in modulation of chemical synaptic transmission .
any process ,  acting in the presynapse that results in modulation of chemical synaptic transmission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of trans - synaptic signaling .
the component of the synaptic membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
a cytoplasmic ,  membrane bound vesicle that is capable of fusing to the plasma membrane to release its contents into the extracellular space .
a polymer consisting of an indefinite number of protein or protein complex subunits that have polymerised to form a fiber - shaped structure .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytosol of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytosol .
the region of the cytosol consisting of all cytosol that is part of the presynapse .
the region of the cytosol consisting of all cytosol that is part of the postsynapse .
neurotransmitter receptor activity occurring in the postsynaptic membrane that is involved in regulating postsynaptic membrane potential ,  either directly  ( ionotropic receptors )  or indirectly  ( e .g .
the pathway leading to secretion of a neurotransmitter from the presynapse as part of synaptic transmission .
cell - cell signaling to ,  from or within a synapse .
cell - cell signaling in either direction across the synaptic cleft .
any process that modulates synaptic transmission by regulating translation occurring at the synapse .
cell - cell signaling between presynapse and postsynapse ,  across the synaptic cleft ,  that modulates the synaptic transmission properties of the synapse .
the part of synaptic transmission occurring in the post - synapse: a signal transduction pathway consisting of neurotransmitter receptor activation and its effects on postsynaptic membrane potential and the ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytoplasm of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytoplasm .
any process that modulates synaptic transmission by regulating translation occurring at the presynapse .
any process that modulates synaptic transmission by regulating translation occurring at the postsynapse .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurotransmitter receptor activity .
any signal release from a synapse .
the component of the synaptic membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the complete extent of cell cortex that underlies some some region of the plasma membrane .
any protein phosphorylation process that negatively regulates protein kinase activity .
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that negatively regulates single organismal cell - cell adhesion .
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that regulates glucose import .
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that regulates transport .
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that regulates iron ion transport .
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that regulates meiotic nuclear division .
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that regulates carbohydrate metabolic process .
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that negatively regulates cellular amino acid biosynthetic process .
any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that positively regulates dna repair .
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that positively regulates phospholipid biosynthetic process .
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that positively regulates purine nucleotide biosynthetic process .
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that positively regulates meiotic nuclear division .
obsolete .any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that regulates fatty acid biosynthetic process .
catalysis of the reaction: a 3beta - hydroxysteroid - 4alpha - carboxylate  +  nad (  +  )  = a 3 - oxosteroid  +  co2  +  nadh .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  ,  a water - soluble vitamin characterized by possession of a corrin nucleus containing a cobalt atom .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a sterol biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a sterol biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a sterol biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cobalamin metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cobalamin metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
formation of a prolongation or process extending and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of plasma membrane bounded cell projections .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a plasma membrane bounded prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
obsolete .any constituent part of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection ,  a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection are generated and organized .
contractions of the intestinal tract that include peristalsis  ( moving contents onward )  and non - peristaltic movement  ( moving contents back and forth )  .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded neuron projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an olefinic compound ,  any compound which contains a carbon - carbon double bond  ( aka c=c )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an olefinic compound ,  any compound which contains a carbon - carbon double bond  ( aka c=c )  .
one of the two nuclear divisions that occur as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a mitotic cell cycle process comprising the steps by which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides ;  the process involves condensation of chromosomal dna into a highly compacted form .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules as a result of an extracellular stimulus .
the process in which a mitochondrial gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
the process by which an organelle membrane interacts with another membrane via molecular tethers that physically bridge the two membranes and attach them to each other .
catalytic activity that acts to modify a protein .
a molecular function that controls the rate ,  timing and / or magnitude of gene transcription .
the assembly and secretion a set of components to form an extracellular vesicule ,  a membrane - bounded vesicle that is released into the extracellular region .
translation that occurs at the presynapse .
translation that occurs at the presynapse ,  and that modulates chemical synaptic transmission .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which the presynapse take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which the postsynapse take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
translation that occurs at the synapse .
translation that occurs at the postsynapse .
any process that regulates translation occurring at the synapse .
any process that regulates translation occurring at the presynapse .
any process that regulates translation occurring at the postsynapse .
the directed movement of some substance from a cell ,  into the extracellular region .
the directed movement of a lipid from a cell ,  into the extracellular region .
receiving a signal and transmitting it in a cell to initiate an immune response .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the visual system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure ,  including the eye ,  parts of the central nervous system  ( cns )  involved in processing of visual inputs ,  and connecting nerve pathways .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein - glutamine gamma - glutamyltransferase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein - glutamine gamma - glutamyltransferase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein - glutamine gamma - glutamyltransferase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytokine production involved in inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytokine production involved in inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytokine production involved in inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to insulin stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to insulin stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to insulin stimulus .
any regulation of signal transduction that takes place in the extracellular region .
any negative regulation of signal transduction that takes place in extracellular region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes .
obsolete .a negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in negative regulation of cell - cell adhesion .
obsolete .a regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in regulation of glucose import .
obsolete .a negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in regulation of transport .
obsolete .a regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in regulation of carbohydrate metabolic process .
obsolete .a negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in negative regulation of cellular amino acid biosynthetic process .
a positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in positive regulation of dna repair .
obsolete .a positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in positive regulation of phospholipid biosynthetic process .
obsolete .a positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in positive regulation of purine nucleotide biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to bacterium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to bacterium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to bacterium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate receptor signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrate derivative .
any gene expression that is involved in extracellular matrix organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of formation of translation initiation ternary complex .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of formation of translation initiation ternary complex .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of formation of translation initiation ternary complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the development of the heart over time .
any negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in heart development .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in heart development .
the directed movement of a carbohydrate derivative into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a nucleoside phosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside phosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of flagellated sperm motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of flagellated sperm motility .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with heterocyclic compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ether .
enables the transfer of carbohydrate derivative from one side of a membrane to the other .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in cellular response to chemical stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acid derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of fatty acid derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an alpha - amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an alpha - amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an alpha - amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic hydroxy compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic hydroxy compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic hydroxy compound .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving quinone .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of quinone .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the mesenchymal cells of bone as it progresses from its formation to the mature state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - aminobutyric acid catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - aminobutyric acid catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - aminobutyric acid catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitamin a metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular respiration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular respiration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle tissue development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle tissue development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle tissue development .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving homogentisate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium - dependent cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium - dependent cell motility .
any regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in spermatogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of flagellated sperm motility .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with calcitriol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation .
any nucleotide phosphorylation that is involved in dna repair .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving erythrose 4 - phosphate / phosphoenolpyruvate family amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ketone body .
any apoptotic process that is involved in blood vessel morphogenesis .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with d3 vitamins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
the process in which chloride is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sperm capacitation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sperm capacitation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sperm capacitation .
a protein complex which is capable of catalytic activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine - type peptidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine - type peptidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine - type peptidase activity .
the directed movement of a proton across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil migration .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tertiary alcohol .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of tertiary alcohol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving secondary alcohol .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of secondary alcohol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon guidance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any apoptotic process that is involved in anatomical structure development .
any microtubule cytoskeleton organization that is involved in mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alcohol biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of alcohol biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alcohol biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna polymerase ii regulatory region sequence - specific dna binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna polymerase ii regulatory region sequence - specific dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of opsonization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of opsonization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
a process that is part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a process that is part of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of acetylcholine - gated cation channel activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of acetylcholine - gated cation channel activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein lipidation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein lipidation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein lipidation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription occuring in the mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription occuring in the mitochondrion .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a mononuclear cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione peroxidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione peroxidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione peroxidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyruvate kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyruvate kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyruvate kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nitrogen cycle metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nitrogen cycle metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nitrogen cycle metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vacuolar transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vacuolar transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vacuolar transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleus organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lactation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lactation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lactation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving liposaccharide .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mucopolysaccharide .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular vesicular exosome assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular vesicular exosome assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular vesicular exosome assembly .
any vesicle that is part of the extracellular region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of aerobic respiration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phospholipid metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phospholipid metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phospholipid metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane organization .
obsolete .any signal transduction that is involved in regulation of aerobic respiration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of beta - galactosidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of beta - galactosidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac conduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac conduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac conduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of amino acid transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of inorganic anion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of inorganic anion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of inorganic anion transmembrane transport .
the process in which an organic acid is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidative phosphorylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of respiratory gaseous exchange .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of respiratory gaseous exchange .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception of pain .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception of pain .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation transmembrane transport .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in neuron differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein o - linked glycosylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein o - linked glycosylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein o - linked glycosylation .
any cytoplasm that is part of a axon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine c - palmitoyltransferase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine c - palmitoyltransferase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine c - palmitoyltransferase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycogen synthase activity ,  transferring glucose - 1 - phosphate .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycogen synthase activity ,  transferring glucose - 1 - phosphate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycogen synthase activity ,  transferring glucose - 1 - phosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bile acid metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bile acid metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bile acid metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of an iron transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an iron transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an iron transmembrane transporter activity .
any transmitter - gated ion channel activity that is involved in regulation of postsynaptic membrane potential .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcitonin secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcitonin secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcitonin secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretory granule organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretory granule organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretory granule organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolytic process through fructose - 6 - phosphate .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolytic process through fructose - 6 - phosphate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolytic process through fructose - 6 - phosphate .
the process in which glucose is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of somatic stem cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of somatic stem cell division .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of somatic stem cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational initiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational initiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational initiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal lipid absorption .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal lipid absorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal lipid absorption .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquinone biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquinone biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nmda glutamate receptor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nmda glutamate receptor activity .
any regulation of translation that is involved in cellular response to uv .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any voltage - gated ion channel activity that is involved in regulation of postsynaptic membrane potential .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane lipid metabolic process .
the process in which carboxylic acid is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial translational elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial translational elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial translational elongation .
any cell surface receptor signaling pathway that is involved in cell - cell signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucosylceramidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucosylceramidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucosylceramidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial tube formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial tube formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial tube formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural crest cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural crest cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural crest cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a ciliary transition zone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fertilization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna polymerase ii regulatory region sequence - specific dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of artery morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of artery morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of artery morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled proton transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled proton transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
any dna recombination that takes place in mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any protein complex that possesses oxidoreductase activity .
the movement of a neutrophil within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
the process in which a solute is transported from one side of a membrane to the other into ,  out of or within a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational termination .
a process that results in the endonucleolytic cleavage of the damaged strand of dna immediately 5' of a uv - induced damage site ,  and is the first part of a dna repair process that acts on both cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers  ( cpds )  and pyrimidine - pyrimidone 6 - 4 photoproducts  ( 6 - 4pps )  .
any process carried out at the cellular level that reduces or removes the toxicity of a toxic substance .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with double - stranded dna of a specific nucleotide composition ,  e .g .
a macromolecular complex that contains both rna and protein molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of multicellular organismal development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cortisol biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cortisol biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cortisol biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - ascorbic acid biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - ascorbic acid biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium - dependent cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of testosterone biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of testosterone biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein activation cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein activation cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein activation cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular amino acid biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular amino acid biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular amino acid biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of n - methyl - d - aspartate selective glutamate receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via the cd40 signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via the cd40 signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via the cd40 signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm development .
any process that enhances the establishment or increases the extent of the excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  which is a temporary increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxidase activity .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the biosynthesis of fatty acids ,  by modulating the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription regulatory region dna binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription regulatory region dna binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription regulatory region dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleotide - excision repair .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of androgen receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of parathyroid hormone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of parathyroid hormone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of parathyroid hormone secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of steroid hormone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of steroid hormone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of steroid hormone secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of androgen secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of androgen secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of androgen secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of testosterone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of testosterone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of testosterone secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of corticosteroid hormone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of corticosteroid hormone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of corticosteroid hormone secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucocorticoid secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucocorticoid secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucocorticoid secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mineralocorticoid secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mineralocorticoid secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mineralocorticoid secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of aldosterone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of aldosterone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of aldosterone secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendritic cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendritic cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendritic cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chloride transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chloride transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation channel activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation channel activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation channel activity .
obsolete .any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose import in response to insulin stimulus .
obsolete .any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose import in response to insulin stimulus .
obsolete .any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose import in response to insulin stimulus .
deviation from the norm of height with respect to that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
the pattern in which a particular genetic trait or disorder is passed from one generation to the next .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on one of the autosomes  ( i .e . ,  the human chromosomes 1 - 22 )  in which a trait manifests in heterozygotes .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on one of the autosomes  ( i .e . ,  the human chromosomes 1 - 22 )  in which a trait manifests in individuals with two pathogenic alleles ,  either homozygotes  ( two copies of the same mutant allele )  or compound heterozygotes  ( whereby each copy of a gene has a distinct mutant allele )  .
an abnormality of the female internal genitalia .
dysfunction of the urinary bladder .
a type of bladder dysfunction caused by neurologic damage .
an abnormality of the urinary bladder .
an abnormality of the male internal genitalia .
protrusion of the contents of the abdominal cavity through the inguinal canal .
the presence of inflammation of the epididymis .
an abnormality of male external genitalia .
an anomaly of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
abnormality of the male external sex organ .
hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia .
underdevelopment of part or all of the male external reproductive organs  ( which include the penis ,  the scrotum and the urethra )  .
an abnormality of the ureter .
the presence of a stenotic ,  i .e . ,  constricted ureter .
blockage of urine flow from the renal pelvis to the proximal ureter .
an abnormality of the kidney .
an abnormality of the genital system .
an abnormality of the urinary system .
an abnormal functionality of the genital system .
a reduction in the level of performance of the kidneys in areas of function comprising the concentration of urine ,  removal of wastes ,  the maintenance of electrolyte balance ,  homeostasis of blood pressure ,  and calcium metabolism .
presence of cysts at the corticomedullary junction of the kidney in combination with tubulointerstitial fibrosis .
a structural anomaly of the glomerulus .
accumulation of scar tissue within the glomerulus .
a height above that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
inflammation of the renal glomeruli .
a fluid filled sac in the kidney .
a nonspecific term referring to disease or damage of the kidneys .
the presence of multiple cysts in both kidneys .
a phenotypic abnormality .
the presence of any abnormality of the genitourinary system .
an abnormality of the uterus .
prolonged and excessive menses at regular intervals in excess of 80 ml or lasting longer than 7 days .
an abnormality of the ovulation cycle .
any structural abnormality of the vagina .
an abnormality of head and neck .
an abnormality of the mouth .
erosion of the mucous mebrane of the mouth with local excavation of the surface ,  resulting from the sloughing of inflammatory necrotic tissue .
any abnormality of the tongue .
an abnormality of the lip .
abnormality of the oral cavity ,  i .e . ,  the opening or hollow part of the mouth .
any abnormality of the teeth .
any abnormality of the gingiva  ( also known as gums )  .
any abnormality of the palate ,  i .e . ,  of roof of the mouth .
an abnormality of the upper lip .
pierre robin malformation is a sequence of developmental malformations characterized by micrognathia  ( mandibular hypoplasia )  ,  glossoptosis and cleft palate .
the presence of a cleft in the oral cavity ,  the two main types of which are cleft lip and cleft palate .
height of the vermilion of the upper lip in the midline more than 2 sd below the mean .
height of the vermilion of the medial part of the lip more than 2 sd below the mean ,  or apparently reduced height of the vermilion of the lip in the frontal view .
an abnormality of the head .
any abnormality of the size of the skull .
wedge - shaped ,  or triangular head ,  with the apex of the triangle at the midline of the forehead and the base of the triangle at the occiput .
head circumference below 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and gender .
occipitofrontal  ( head )  circumference greater than 97th centile compared to appropriate ,  age matched ,  sex - matched normal standards .
an abnormality of the face .
underdevelopment of the malar prominence of the jugal bone  ( zygomatic bone in mammals )  ,  appreciated in profile ,  frontal view ,  and / or by palpation .
a face that is short  ( hp:0011219 )  and narrow  ( hp:0000275 )  .
bizygomatic  ( upper face )  and bigonial  ( lower face )  width are both more than 2 standard deviations below the mean  ( objective )  ;  or ,  an apparent reduction in the width of the upper and lower face  ( subjective )  .
any abnormality of the mandible ,  the bone of the lower jaw .
an abnormality in which the mandible is mislocalised posteriorly .
a fold of skin starting above the medial aspect of the upper eyelid and arching downward to cover ,  pass in front of and lateral to the medial canthus .
an anomaly of the forehead .
reduced muscle tone of a muscle that is innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
an anomaly of a muscle that is innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
an anomaly of the midface ,  which is a region and not an anatomical term .
interpupillary distance more than 2 sd above the mean  ( alternatively ,  the appearance of an increased interpupillary distance or widely spaced eyes )  .
developmental hypoplasia of the mandible .
an abnormality of the inner ear .
tinnitus is an auditory perception that can be described as the experience of sound ,  in the ear or in the head ,  in the absence of external acoustic stimulation .
an abnormality of the sensory perception of sound .
a decreased magnitude of the sensory perception of sound .
an abnormality of the nose .
an abnormality of the middle ear .
an abnormality of vibrational conductance of sound to the inner ear leading to impairment of sensory perception of sound .
a type of hearing impairment in one or both ears related to an abnormal functionality of the cochlear nerve .
epistaxis ,  or nosebleed ,  refers to a hemorrhage localized in the nose .
an inability to perceive odors .
any abnormality of the eye ,  including location ,  spacing ,  and intraocular abnormalities .
a structural abnormality of the retina .
any abnormality of the cornea ,  which is the transparent tissue at the front of the eye that covers the iris ,  pupil ,  and anterior chamber .
an abnormality of the eyelids .
an abnormality in voluntary or involuntary eye movements or their control .
an abnormality of the eyelashes .
glaucoma refers loss of retinal ganglion cells in a characteristic pattern of optic neuropathy usually associated with increased intraocular pressure .
an abnormality of the conjunctiva .
abnormality of eyesight  ( visual perception )  .
visual impairment  ( or vision impairment )  is vision loss  ( of a person )  to such a degree as to qualify as an additional support need through a significant limitation of visual capability resulting from either disease ,  trauma ,  or congenital or degenerative conditions that cannot be corrected by conventional means ,  such as refractive correction ,  medication ,  or surgery .
the upper eyelid margin is positioned 3 mm or more lower than usual and covers the superior portion of the iris  ( objective )  ;  or ,  the upper lid margin obscures at least part of the pupil  ( subjective )  .
inflammation of the conjunctiva .
an abnormality of the lens .
a cataract is an opacity or clouding that develops in the crystalline lens of the eye or in its capsule .
an eye that is protruding anterior to the plane of the face to a greater extent than is typical .
absence of tear secretion .
an abnormality of the iris ,  which is the pigmented muscular tissue between the cornea and the lens ,  that is perforated by an opening called the pupil .
absence of the globe or eyeball .
an abnormality of the choroid and retina .
an abnormality of the eyebrow .
any deviation from the normal motor coordination of the eyes that allows for bilateral fixation on a single object .
an abnormality of the uvea ,  the vascular layer of the eyeball .
inflammation of one or all portions of the uveal tract .
retinal dystrophy is an abnormality of the retina associated with a hereditary process .
loss of visual acuity  ( implying that vision was better at a certain timepoint in life )  .
abnormality of the optic nerve .
abnormality of the anterior chamber ,  which is the space in the eye that is behind the cornea and in front of the iris .
an abnormality of the ear .
an abnormality of the region situated around the orbit of the eye .
any structural abnormality of the choroid .
excessive sensitivity to light with the sensation of discomfort or pain in the eyes due to exposure to bright light .
blindness is the condition of lacking visual perception defined as visual perception below 3 / 60 and / or a visual field of no greater than 10 degress in radius around central fixation .
lack of sharpness of vision resulting in the inability to see fine detail .
a short discontinuity of the margin of the lower or upper eyelid .
abnormality of tear production .
abnormally decreased lacrimation ,  that is ,  reduced ability to produce tears .
reduced visual acuity that is uncorrectable by lenses in the absence of detectable anatomic defects in the eye or visual pathways .
diplopia is a condition in which a single object is perceived as two images ,  it is also known as double vision .
ocular motor apraxia is a deficiency in voluntary ,  horizontal ,  lateral ,  fast eye movements  ( saccades )  with retention of slow pursuit movements .
a developmental anomaly characterized by a reduced number of teeth ,  whereby up to 6 teeth are missing .
an abnormality of the nervous system .
an abnormality of mental functioning including various affective ,  behavioural ,  cognitive and perceptual abnormalities .
a state of unease characterized by diffuse motor activity or motion subject to limited control ,  nonproductive or disorganized behavior ,  and subjective distress .
a state of exceeding restlessness and excessive motor activity associated with mental distress or a feeling of inner tension .
autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impaired social interaction and communication ,  and by restricted and repetitive behavior .
a loss of global cognitive ability of sufficient amount to interfere with normal social or occupational function .
persistent deficits in social interaction and communication and interaction as well as a markedly restricted repertoire of activity and interest as well as repetitive patterns of behavior .
intense feelings of nervousness ,  tenseness ,  or panic ,  often in reaction to interpersonal stresses ;  worry about the negative effects of past unpleasant experiences and future negative possibilities ;  feeling fearful ,  apprehensive ,  or threatened by uncertainty ;  fears of falling apart or losing control .
a reduction in goal - directed behavior ,  that is ,  motivation ,  the determinant of behavior and adaptation that allows individuals to get started ,  be energized to perform a sustained and directed action .
a degree of language development that is significantly below the norm for a child of a specified age .
hyperactivity is a state of constantly being unusually or abnormally active ,  including in situations in which it is not appropriate .
a structural abnormality of the peripheral nervous system ,  which is composed of the nerves that lead to or branch off from the central nervous system .
peripheral neuropathy affecting the sensory nerves .
any abnormality of the thorax  ( the region of the body formed by the sternum ,  the thoracic vertebrae and the ribs )  .
an anomaly of the sternum ,  also known as the breastbone .
a deformity of the chest caused by overgrowth of the ribs and characterized by protrusion of the sternum .
an abnormality of the breast .
reduced width of the chest from side to side ,  associated with a reduced distance from the sternal notch to the tip of the shoulder .
abnormality of the thymus ,  an organ located in the upper anterior portion of the chest cavity just behind the sternum and whose main function is to provide an environment for t lymphocyte maturation .
the presence of blood in the urine .
inability to develop or maintain an erection of the penis .
an anomaly of the adnexa ,  uterus ,  and vagina  ( in female )  or seminal tract and prostate  ( in male )  .
reduced function of the gonads  ( testes in males or ovaries in females )  associated with excess pituitary gonadotropin secretion and resulting in delayed sexual development and growth delay .
an abnormality of the endocrine system .
a group of abnormalities characterized by hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance .
an abnormality of the thyroid gland .
the presence of chronic increased pressure in the systemic arterial system .
an abnormality of the parathyroid gland .
a condition of reduced function of the anterior pituitary gland characterized by decreased secretion of one or more of the pituitary hormones growth hormone ,  thyroid - stimulating hormone ,  adrenocorticotropic hormone ,  prolactin ,  luteinizing hormone ,  and follicle - stimulating hormone .
abnormality of the adrenal glands ,  i .e . ,  of the endocrine glands located at the top of the kindneys .
an increased concentration of insulin in the blood .
insufficient production of steroid hormones  ( primarily cortisol )  by the adrenal glands .
an abnormality of the renin - angiotensin system .
an enlargement of the thyroid gland .
increased resistance towards insulin ,  that is ,  diminished effectiveness of insulin in reducing blood glucose levels .
abnormally high variation in the amount of time between periods .
abnormality of the pituitary gland  ( also known as hypophysis )  ,  which is an endocrine gland that protrudes from the bottom of the hypothalamus at the base of the brain .
the presence of abnormally increased levels of prolactin in the blood .
an abnormality of the skeletal system .
any abnormality of the vertebral column .
a flattened vertebral body shape with reduced distance between the vertebral endplates .
the bones of the skeleton undergo a series of characteristic changes in size ,  shape ,  and calcification from fetal life until puberty .
an abnormality of the skull ,  the bony framework of the head which is comprised of eight cranial and fourteen facial bones .
an abnormality of the fossa cranii posterior  ( the posterior fossa )  ,  which is made up primarily of the occipital bone and which surrounds to the foramen magnum .
an abnormality of the structure or form of the diaphysis ,  i .e . ,  of the main or mid - section  ( shaft )  of a long bone .
an abnormality of one or more metaphysis ,  i .e . ,  of the somewhat wider portion of a long bone that is adjacent to the epiphyseal growth plate and grows during childhood .
an abnormality of the skin .
yellow pigmentation of the skin due to bilirubin ,  which in turn is the result of increased bilirubin concentration in the bloodstream .
a darkening of the skin related to an increase in melanin production and deposition .
hyperkeratosis is thickening of the outer layer of the skin ,  the stratum corneum ,  which is composed of large ,  polyhedral ,  plate - like envelopes filled with keratin which are the dead cells that have migrated up from the stratum granulosum .
eczema is a form of dermatitis .
petechiae are pinpoint - sized reddish / purple spots ,  resembling a rash ,  that appear just under the skin or a mucous membrane when capillaries have ruptured and some superficial bleeding into the skin has happened .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin ,  or in one or more cavities of the body .
hyperkeratosis affecting the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot .
abnormal excessive perspiration  ( sweating )  despite the lack of appropriate stimuli like hot and humid weather .
an ecchymosis  ( bruise )  refers to the skin discoloration caused by the escape of blood into the tissues from ruptured blood vessels .
purpura  ( from latin: purpura ,  meaning "purple" )  is the appearance of red or purple discolorations on the skin that do not blanch on applying pressure .
abnormal thickening of the skin of the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet .
a red eruption of the skin .
pruritus is an itch or a sensation that makes a person want to scratch .
the presence of multiple xanthomas  ( xanthomata )  in the skin .
an increased sensitivity of the skin to light .
hypertrichosis is increased hair growth that is abnormal in quantity or location .
an abnormality of the pigmentation of the skin .
a reduction of skin color related to a decrease in melanin production and deposition .
raised ,  well - circumscribed areas of erythema and edema involving the dermis and epidermis .
seborrheic dermatitis is a form of eczema which is closely related to dandruff .
laminar thickening of skin .
an abnormality of the biliary tree .
dryness of the eye related to deficiency of the tear film components  ( aqueous ,  mucin ,  or lipid )  ,  lid surface abnormalities ,  or epithelial abnormalities .
any structural abnormality of the fundus of the eye .
a structural abnormality of the macula lutea ,  which is an oval - shaped highly pigmented yellow spot near the center of the retina .
the presence of xanthomata in the skin of the eyelid .
the presence of a vaginal septum ,  thereby creating a vaginal duplication .
an abnormality affecting one or both hands .
digits that appear disproportionately short compared to the hand / foot .
webbing or fusion of the fingers or toes ,  involving soft parts only or including bone structure .
an abnormality of the fetus or the birth of the fetus ,  excluding structural abnormalities .
an abnormality of the fingernails .
a seizure is an intermittent abnormality of nervous system physiology characterised by a transient occurrence of signs and / or symptoms due to abnormal excessive or synchronous neuronal activity in the brain .
cerebellar ataxia refers to ataxia due to dysfunction of the cerebellum .
hypotonia is an abnormally low muscle tone  ( the amount of tension or resistance to movement in a muscle )  .
a state of disinterestedness ,  listlessness ,  and indifference ,  resulting in difficulty performing simple tasks or concentrating .
a motor disorder characterized by a velocity - dependent increase in tonic stretch reflexes with increased muscle tone ,  exaggerated  ( hyperexcitable )  tendon reflexes .
complete absence of wakefulness and content of conscience ,  which manifests itself as a lack of response to any kind of external stimuli .
dysarthric speech is a general description referring to a neurological speech disorder characterized by poor articulation .
a state of abnormally strong desire for sleep during the daytime .
loss of previously present mental abilities ,  generally in adults .
loss of strength in the arm ,  leg ,  and sometimes face on one side of the body .
abnormality of the corpus callosum .
absence of the corpus callosum as a result of the failure of the corpus callosum to develop ,  which can be the result of a failure in any one of the multiple steps of callosal development including cellular proliferation and migration ,  axonal growth or glial patterning at the midline .
a condition in which there is increased muscle tone so that arms or legs ,  for example ,  are stiff and difficult to move .
syncope refers to a generalized weakness of muscles with loss of postural tone ,  inability to stand upright ,  and loss of consciousness .
inflammation of the meninges .
the term gait disturbance can refer to any disruption of the ability to walk .
lack of clarity and coherence of thought ,  perception ,  understanding ,  or action .
sudden impairment of blood flow to a part of the brain due to occlusion or rupture of an artery to the brain .
encephalopathy is a term that means brain disease ,  damage ,  or malfunction .
characteristic neurologic anomaly resulting form degeneration of dopamine - generating cells in the substantia nigra ,  a region of the midbrain ,  characterized clinically by shaking ,  rigidity ,  slowness of movement and difficulty with walking and gait .
a congenital brain malformation typically characterized by incomplete formation of the cerebellar vermis ,  dilation of the fourth ventricle ,  and enlargement of the posterior fossa .
any structural abnormality of the cerebellum .
underdevelopment of the vermis of cerebellum .
reduced strength of muscles .
absence of the septum pellucidum .
very brief ,  involuntary random muscular contractions occurring at rest ,  in response to sensory stimuli ,  or accompanying voluntary movements .
an unintentional ,  oscillating to - and - fro muscle movement about a joint axis .
a spectrum of malformations of cortical development caused by insufficient neuronal migration that subsumes the terms agyria ,  pachygyria and subcortical band heterotopia .
an abnormal structure or form of the joints ,  i .e . ,  one or more of the articulations where two bones join .
a flexion contracture is a bent  ( flexed )  joint that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
displacement or malalignment of joints .
a reduction in the freedom of movement of one or more joints .
an abnormality of the hip joint .
joint stiffness is a perceived sensation of tightness in a joint or joints when attempting to move them after a period of inactivity .
an abnormality of the liver .
a chronic disorder of the liver in which liver tissue becomes scarred and is partially replaced by regenerative nodules and fibrotic tissue resulting in loss of liver function .
steatosis is a term used to denote lipid accumulation within hepatocytes .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on the x chromosome .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for recessive traits related to a gene encoded on the x chromosome .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for dominant traits related to a gene encoded on the x chromosome .
simultaneous enlargement of the liver and spleen .
a structural abnormality of the abdomen  ( 'belly' )  ,  that is ,  the part of the body between the pelvis and the thorax .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on the y chromosome .
the presence of an increased number of freckles ,  small circular spots on the skin that are darker than the surrounding skin because of deposits of melanin .
slightly elevated lesions on or in the skin with a diameter of over 5 mm .
failure to thrive  ( ftt )  refers to a child whose physical growth is substantially below the norm .
a deficiency or slowing down of growth pre -  and postnatally .
accumulation of substantial excess body fat .
accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity .
excessive postnatal growth which may comprise increased weight ,  increased length ,  and / or increased head circumference .
an abnormality of fetal movement .
an abnormal reduction in quantity or strength of fetal movements .
an abnormality of the integument ,  which consists of the skin and the superficial fascia .
infections of the skin that happen multiple times .
an abnormality of the hair .
abnormality of the nail .
an abnormality of the larynx .
hoarseness refers to a change in the pitch or quality of the voice ,  with the voice sounding weak ,  very breathy ,  scratchy ,  or husky .
an impairment in the ability to produce voice sounds .
any abnormality of the cardiovascular system .
any structural anomaly of the heart .
a structural anomaly of the muscle layer of the heart wall .
a rapid heartrate that exceeds the range of the normal resting heartrate for age .
the presence of a stenosis  ( narrowing )  of the aortic valve .
the heart is located in the right hand sided hemithorax .
any structural abnormality of a cardiac valve .
the truncus arteriosus and bulbus cordis are divided by the aorticopulmonary septum .
a slower than normal heart rate  ( in adults ,  slower than 60 beats per minute )  .
uncontrolled contractions of muscles fibers in the left ventricle not producing contraction of the left ventricle .
an abnormality of the aorta .
an abnormality of the pericardium ,  i .e . ,  of the fluid filled sac that surrounds the heart and the proximal ends of the aorta ,  vena cava ,  and the pulmonary artery .
accumulation of fluid within the pericardium .
irreversible damage to heart tissue  ( myocardium )  due to lack of oxygen after a heart attack  ( myocardial infarction )  .
any structural anomaly of the tricuspid valve .
a congenital malformation of the outflow tract of the heart .
an abnormal narrowing of the orifice of the mitral valve .
an abnormality of the pancreas .
an abnormality of the spleen .
abnormal increased size of the spleen .
an abnormality of the functioning of the vestibular apparatus .
an abnormality of the skeleton of foot .
talipes equinovarus  ( also called clubfoot )  typically has four main components: inversion and adduction of the forefoot ;  inversion of the heel and hindfoot ;  equinus  ( limitation of extension )  of the ankle and subtalar joint ;  and internal rotation of the leg .
an abnormality of the birth process .
the abnormal accumulation of fluid in two or more fetal compartments ,  including ascites ,  pleural effusion ,  pericardial effusion ,  and skin edema .
a nail that is diminished in length and width ,  i .e . ,  underdeveloped nail .
underdevelopment of a fingernail .
reduction inexisting body weight .
an abnormality of the hematopoietic system .
an abnormality of platelets .
any structural abnormality of erythrocytes  ( red - blood cells )  .
an abnormal count or structure of eosinophils .
increased count of eosinophils in the blood .
an abnormality of leukocytes .
a deformity of foot and ankle that has different subtypes that are talipes equinovarus ,  talipes equinovalgus ,  talipes calcaneovarus and talipes calcaneovalgus .
a reduced number of lymphocytes in the blood .
anemia characterized by the presence of erythroblasts that are larger than normal  ( megaloblasts )  .
an abnormal susceptibility to bleeding ,  often referred to as a bleeding diathesis .
increased numbers of platelets in the peripheral blood .
a reduction in erythrocytes volume or hemoglobin concentration .
the formation of a blood clot inside a blood vessel that subsequently travels through the blood stream from the site where it formed to another location in the body ,  generally leading to vascular occlusion at the distant site .
a cancer of the blood and bone marrow characterized by an abnormal proliferation of leukocytes .
any structural abnormality or abnormal count of granulocytes .
an abnormally reduced number of granulocytes in the blood .
the presence of stenosis of the renal artery .
acanthocytosis is a type of poikilocytosis characterized by the presence of spikes on the cell surface .
an abnormality of the process of blood coagulation .
decreased activity of coagulation factor xi .
a type of anemia characterized by an abnormally low concentration of hemoglobin in the erythrocytes .
this term refers to an abnormally increased susceptibility to bruising  ( purpura ,  petechiae ,  or ecchymoses )  .
abnormal acid accumulation or depletion of base .
metabolic acidosis  ( ma )  is characterized by a fall in blood ph due to a reduction of serum bicarbonate concentration .
elevated body temperature due to failed thermoregulation .
excessive thirst manifested by excessive fluid intake .
a sensation that the heart is pounding or racing ,  which is a non - specific sign but may be a manifestation of arrhythmia .
any anomaly of the scalp ,  the skin an subcutaneous tissue of the head on which head hair grows .
an abnormality of the mesangium ,  i .e . ,  of the central part of the renal glomerulus between capillaries .
diffuse sclerosis of the mesangium ,  as manifestated by diffuse mesangial matrix expansion .
a type of anemia characterized by increased size of erythrocytes with increased mean corpuscular volume  ( mcv )  and increased mean corpuscular hemoglobin  ( mch )  .
an abnormal increase in the number of leukocytes in the blood .
venous or arterial thrombosis  ( formation of blood clots )  of spontaneous nature and which cannot be fully explained by acquired risk  ( e .g .
an abnormal morphology  ( form )  of the face or its components .
a structural abnormality of the central nervous system .
an abnormality of the viscera of the abdomen .
forceful ejection of the contents of the stomach through the mouth by means of a series of involuntary spasmic contractions .
abnormally increased frequency of loose or watery bowel movements .
difficulty in swallowing .
nausea is a commonly encountered symptom that has been defined as an unpleasant painless subjective feeling that one will imminently vomit .
infrequent or difficult evacuation of feces .
congenital absence of the anus ,  i .e . ,  the opening at the bottom end of the intestinal tract .
impaired ability to absorb one or more nutrients from the intestine .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  and perceived to originate in the abdomen .
an abnormaltiy of the rectum ,  the final segment of the large intestine that stores solid waste until it passes through the anus .
protrusion of the rectal mucous membrane through the anus .
malignant hyperthermia is characterized by a rapid increase in temperature to 39 - 42 degrees c in response to inhalational anesthetics such as halothane or to muscle relaxants such as succinylcholine .
atrophy  ( wasting ,  decrease in size of cells or tissue )  affecting the cerebrum .
any structural abnormality of the telencephalon ,  which is also known as the cerebrum .
continuous involuntary sustained muscle contraction .
a type of ataxia characterized by the impairment of the ability to coordinate the movements required for normal walking .
a bilateral tonic - clonic seizure is a seizure defined by a tonic  ( bilateral increased tone ,  lasting seconds to minutes )  and then a clonic  ( bilateral sustained rhythmic jerking )  phase .
a neurological condition related to lesions of the basal ganglia leading to typical abnormalities including akinesia  ( inability to initiate changes in activity and perform volitional movements rapidly and easily )  ,  muscular rigidity  ( continuous contraction of muscles with constant resistance to passive movement )  ,  chorea  ( widespread arrhythmic movements of a forcible ,  rapid ,  jerky ,  and restless nature )  ,  athetosis  ( inability to sustain the muscles of the fingers ,  toes ,  or other group of muscles in a fixed position )  ,  and akathisia  ( inability to remain motionless )  .
chorea  ( greek for 'dance' )  refers to widespread arrhythmic involuntary movements of a forcible ,  jerky and restless fashion .
migraine is a chronic neurological disorder characterized by episodic attacks of headache and associated symptoms .
an abnormality of the respiratory system ,  which include the airways ,  lungs ,  and the respiratory muscles .
an abnormality of the upper respiratory tract .
any structural anomaly of the lung .
difficult or labored breathing .dyspnea is a subjective feeling only the patient can rate ,  e .g . ,  on a borg scale .
respiratory distress is objectively observable as the physical or emotional consequences from the experience of dyspnea .
inflammation of the pleura .
an abnormality of the pulmonary pleura ,  the thin ,  transparent membrane which covers the lungs and lines the inside of the chest walls .
lack of breathing with no movement of the respiratory muscles and no exchange of air in the lungs .
coughing up  ( expectoration )  of blood or blood - streaked sputum from the larynx ,  trachea ,  bronchi ,  or lungs .
abnormality of the cerebral ventricles .
an increase in size of the ventricular system of the brain .
a generalized non - motor  ( absence )  seizure is a type of a type of dialeptic seizure that is of electrographically generalized onset .
abnormality of the basal ganglia .
the presence of calcium deposition affecting one or more structures of the basal ganglia .
acute ischemic stroke  ( ais )  is defined by the sudden loss of blood flow to an area of the brain with the resulting loss of neurologic function .
an abnormality of the spinal cord  ( myelon )  .
an abnormally decreased phosphate concentration in the blood .
an abnormally high level of uric acid in the blood .
an abnormally increased potassium concentration in the blood .
an increased concentration of homocystine in the urine .
an increased concentration of nitrogen compounds in the blood .
an increased concentration of homocystine in the blood .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the nail .
pathological protein aggregates formed by hyperphosphorylation of a microtubule - associated protein known as tau ,  causing it to aggregate in an insoluble form .
a generalized - onset seizure is a type of seizure originating at some point within ,  and rapidly engaging ,  bilaterally distributed networks .
an abnormal dilatation of the fourth cerebral ventricle .
the presence of an excessive amount of fluid in the pleural cavity .
an embolus  ( that is ,  an abnormal particle circulating in the blood )  located in the pulmonary artery and thereby blocking blood circulation to the lung .
an increased susceptibility to respiratory infections as manifested by a history of recurrent respiratory infections .
decreased number of hairs per unit area of skin of the scalp .
the term woolly hair refers to an abnormal variant of hair that is fine ,  with tightly coiled curls ,  and often hypopigmented .
white color  ( lack of pigmentation )  of the eyebrow .
white color  ( lack of pigmentation )  of the eyelashes .
hemorrhage affecting the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormally increased size of the liver .
an abnormality of the intestine .
an abnormality of the small intestine .
the vomiting of blood .
the passage of blackish ,  tarry feces associated with gastrointestinal hemorrhage .
any abnormality of the large intestine .
an abnormality resulting from an anomaly of neuronal migration ,  i .e . ,  of the process by which neurons travel from their origin to their final position in the brain .
an abnormality of the autonomic nervous system .
cephalgia ,  or pain sensed in various parts of the head ,  not confined to the area of distribution of any nerve .
an abnormal sensation of spinning while the body is actually stationary .
excessive daytime sleepiness .
an anomaly of the vermis of cerebellum .
a tremor present when the limbs are active ,  either when outstretched in a certain position or throughout a voluntary movement .
this term describes abnormality of the white matter of the cerebrum resulting from damage to the myelin sheaths of nerve cells .
an impairment of memory as manifested by a reduced ability to remember things such as dates and names ,  and increased forgetfulness .
an abnormality of sleep including such phenomena as 1 )  insomnia / hypersomnia ,  2 )  non - restorative sleep ,  3 )  sleep schedule disorder ,  4 )  excessive daytime somnolence ,  5 )  sleep apnea ,  and 6 )  restlessness .
a febrile seizure is any type of seizure  ( most often a generalized tonic - clonic seizure )  occurring with fever  ( at least 38 degrees celsius )  but in the absence of central nervous system infection ,  severe metabolic disturbance or other alternative precipitant in children between the ages of 3 months and 6 years .
stenosis of the cerebral aqueduct  ( also known as the mesencephalic duct ,  aqueductus mesencephali ,  or aqueduct of sylvius )  ,  which connects the third cerebral ventricle in the diencephalon to the fourth ventricle ,  which is between the pons and cerebellum .
incomplete closure of the embryonic neural tube ,  whereby some vertebral arches remain unfused and open .
protrusion of the meninges through a defect of the vertebral column .
any structural anomaly that affects the motor neuron .
language impairment is a deficit in comprehension or production of language that includes reduced vocabulary ,  limited sentence structure or impairments in written or spoken communication .
an involuntary and painless delay in the relaxation of skeletal muscle following contraction or electrical stimulation .
a functional anomaly of the upper motor neuron .
an abnormality of the cerebral white matter .
the presence of calcium deposition within brain structures .
a sudden and transient episode of bilateral loss of muscle tone ,  often triggered by emotions .
an abnormality of the gyri  ( i .e . ,  the ridges )  of the cerebral cortex of the brain .
an abnormality of the cerebral cortex .
the passage of fresh  ( red )  blood per anus ,  usually in or with stools .
an abnormality of the stomach .
bleeding from the intestines .
an abnormality of the vasculature .
involuntary fecal soiling in adults and children who have usually already been toilet trained .
low blood pressure ,  vascular hypotension .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation in the wall of an atery ,  vein or the heart .
enlarged and tortuous veins .
an anomaly of vein .
abnormality of the absorption of fat from the gastrointestinal tract .
an abnormality of the bony pelvic girdle ,  which is a ring of bones connecting the vertebral column to the femurs .
the presence of an abnormal shape of the calvaria  ( skullcap )  ,  that is ,  of that part of the skull that is made up of the superior portions of the frontal bone ,  occipital bone ,  and parietal bones and covers the cranial cavity that contains the brain .
a general term describing features characterized by abnormal development of bones and connective tissues .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to bone .
an organ or organ - system abnormality that consists of uncontrolled autonomous cell - proliferation which can occur in any part of the body as a benign or malignant neoplasm  ( tumour )  .
abnormality of the calvaria ,  which is the roof of the skull formed by the frontal bone ,  parietal bones ,  and occipital bone .
an abnormality of the base of the skull ,  which forms the floor of the cranial cavity and separates the brain from other facial structures .
an abnormality of the immune system .
enlargment  ( swelling )  of a lymph node .
increased susceptibility to bacterial infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of bacterial infection .
increased susceptibility to infections .
failure of the immune system to protect the body adequately from infection ,  due to the absence or insufficiency of some component process or substance .
a chronic ,  relapsing ,  inflammatory ,  and often febrile multisystemic disorder of connective tissue ,  characterized principally by involvement of the skin ,  joints ,  kidneys ,  and serosal membranes .
a lymph node abnormality .
rickets is divided into two major categories including calcipenic and phosphopenic .
a decreased rate of skeletal maturation .
osteomyelitis is an inflammatory process accompanied by bone destruction and caused by an infecting microorganism .
very rapid breathing .
an anomaly of the rhythm or depth of breathing .
osteolysis refers to the destruction of bone through bone resorption with removal or loss of calcium .
coxa vara includes all forms of decrease of the femoral neck shaft angle  ( the angle between the neck and the shaft of the femur )  to less than 120 degrees .
any abnormality of bones of the arms or legs .
an abnormality of the leg .
an abnormality of the knee joint or surrounding structures .
an abnormality of the arm .
any anomaly of the structure of the femur .
joint pain .
inspiration of a foreign object into the airway .
inflammation of a lymph node .
a structural abnormality of b cells .
a condition characterized by obstruction of the airway and by pauses in breathing during sleep occurring many times during the night .
hyperventilation refers to an increased pulmonary ventilation rate that is faster than necessary for the exchange of gases .
an abnormally decreased potassium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally decreased calcium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally increased phosphate concentration in the blood .
an abnormally decreased magnesium concentration in the blood .
an abnormality of the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
the occurrence of an immune reaction against the organism's own cells or tissues .
a positional abnormality marked by outward bowing of the legs in which the knees stay wide apart when a person stands with the feet and ankles together .
absence or underdevelopment of tissue in the central nervous system .
a bending or abnormal curvature affecting a long bone of the leg .
an abnormality of the calf ,  i .e .
the presence of abnormally small extremities .
abnormality originating in one or more muscles ,  i .e . ,  of the set of muscles of body .
shortening of the middle parts of the limbs  ( forearm and lower leg )  in relation to the upper and terminal segments .
an abnormally increased calcium concentration in the blood .
reduction in the concentration of albumin in the blood .
an increased concentration of glucose in the urine .
an elevated lipid concentration in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of cholesterol in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of the composition of urine or the levels of its components .
abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of a monoatomic ion .
the presence of an abnormal decrease or increase of one or more amino acids in the blood circulation .
an abnormal concentration of a hormone in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a lipid in the blood circulation .
a contrqacture  ( chronic loss of joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin )  that prevent normal movement of one or more joints of the limbs .
an increased concentration of cholesterol in the blood .
reduced activity of coagulation factor viii .
an abnormality of the spinocerebellar tracts ,  a set of axonal fibers originating in the spinal cord and terminating in the ipsilateral cerebellum .
underdevelopment of the breast .
the presence of skeletal muscular atrophy  ( which is also known as amyotrophy )  .
decreased activity of coagulation factor v .
an increased concentration of tyrosine in the blood .
underdevelopment of part or all of the external reproductive organs .
an abnormality of the coagulation cascade ,  which is comprised of the contact activation pathway  ( also known as the intrinsic pathway )  and the tissue factor pathway  ( also known as the extrinsic pathway )  as well as cofactors and regulators .
abnormal increased size of the viscera of the abdomen .
an abnormality of the hip bone .
abnormally increased cuvature  ( anterior concavity )  of the lumbar or cervical spine .
abnormal morphology of vertebral body .
any anomaly in the composite material or the layered arrangement of the bony skeleton .
an decreased level of renin in the blood .
an increased concentration of an amino acid in the urine .
an abnormality of the femoral neck  ( which is the process of bone ,  connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft )  .
any abnormality of the neuromuscular junction ,  which is the synapse between the motor end plate of a motor neuron and the skeletal muscle fibers .
abnormal sensations such as tingling ,  pricking ,  or numbness of the skin with no apparent physical cause .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the back .
reduced amount of myelin in the central nervous system resulting from defective myelinogenesis .
an abnormality of one or more of the vertebrae .
paralysis of voluntary muscles means loss of contraction due to interruption of one or more motor pathways from the brain to the muscle fibers .
a type of weakness that occurs after a muscle group is used and lessens if the muscle group has some rest .
an abnormality of the primary sensation that is mediated by peripheral nerves  ( pain ,  temperature ,  touch ,  vibration ,  joint position )  .
an abnormally increased level of immunoglobulin m in blood .
a kind of short stature in which different regions of the body are shortened to differing extents .
a kind of short stature in which different regions of the body are shortened to a comparable extent .
a severe degree of short stature ,  more than  - 4 sd from the mean corrected for age and sex .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short trunk but a average - sized limbs .
any abnormality of the soft tissues ,  including both connective tissue  ( tendons ,  ligaments ,  fascia ,  fibrous tissues ,  and fat )  .
a condition in which muscles cannot be moved quickly without accompanying pain or spasm .
a phenotypic abnormality that is present at birth .
onset of disease manifestations in adulthood ,  defined here as at the age of 16 years or later .
onset of signs or symptoms of disease between 28 days to one year of life .
onset of signs or symptoms of disease between the age of 5 and 15 years .
onset of signs or symptoms of disease within the first 28 days of life .
the age group in which disease manifestations appear .
applies to a disease manifestation that only slowly increases in scope or severity over the course of time .
death of the fetus in utero after at least 20 weeks of gestation .
an abnormality of the biliary system .
the presence of any abnormality affecting the abdominal wall .
the presence of a hernia in the abdominal wall .
any abnormality of the skeletal muscle cell .
involuntary contractions of muscle leading to involuntary movements of extremities ,  neck ,  trunk ,  or face .
an abnormality of the endocardium .
thickening of the left ventricle wall with congenital onset .
an abnormally decreased level of immunoglobulin in blood .
abnormally reduced levels of aldosterone .
a height below that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
an abnormal increase or decrease of weight or an abnormal distribution of mass in the body .
abnormally increased body weight .
abnormally low body weight .
severe weight loss ,  wasting of muscle ,  loss of appetite ,  and general debility related to a chronic disease .
any structural anomaly of the vitreous body .
an abnormality of the anterior segment of the eyeball  ( which comprises the structures in front of the vitreous humour: the cornea ,  iris ,  ciliary body ,  and lens )  .
an abnormality of lymphocytes .
abnormality of an amino acid metabolic process .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a aromatic amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a sulfur amino acid in the blood circulation .
this term applies to all changes in bone mineral density which  ( depending on severity )  can be seen on x - rays as a change in density and or structure of the bone .
a reduction of bone mineral density ,  that is ,  of the amount of matter per cubic centimeter of bones .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a purine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carboxylic acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal circulation of leucine in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of the balance or maintenance of the balance of acids and bases in bodily fluids ,  resulting in an abnormal ph .
any deviation from the normal concentration of calcium in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a nitrogen compound in the blood circulation .
abnormally elevated concentration of a purine compound .
an abnormality of temperature homeostasis .
loss of strength in the arm ,  leg ,  and sometimes face on one side of the body .
neoplasms located in the blood and blood - forming tissue  ( the bone marrow and lymphatic tissue )  .
abnormality of the anal canal .
a pathological narrowing in the region above the aortic valve associated with restricted left ventricular outflow .
an anomaly in the ability to perceive and distinguish scents  ( odors )  .
a combined immunodeficiency primary immune deficiency that is characterized by a more severe defect in both the t -  and b - lymphocyte systems .
the presence of erythrocytes that are sphere - shaped .
the presence of abnormally shaped erythrocytes .
bulbous appearance of the anterior vertebral bodies ,  such that the vertebral bodies have the greatest vertical height anteriorly as well as bulbous anterior superior - inferior contours .
an inability to digest lactose .
decreased activity of coagulation factor xii .
a reduced concentration of vitamin a .
an abnormality of magnesium ion homeostasis .
any structural abnormality of a cardiac atrium .
compression of the heart caused by rigid ,  thickened ,  or fused pericardial membranes .
a pregnancy that ends at a stage in which the fetus is incapable of surviving on its own ,  defined as the spontaneous loss of a fetus before the 20th week of pregnancy .
an abnormality of the complement system .
an abnormality of the humoral immune system ,  which comprises antibodies produced by b cells as well as the complement system .
an abnormality of the physiological functioning of b cells .
a group of phenotypically heterogeneous genetic disorders characterized by profound deficiencies of t -  and b - cell function ,  which predispose the patients to both infectious and noninfectious complications .
increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of infection by opportunistic agents ,  i .e . ,  by microorganisms that do not usually cause disease in a healthy host ,  but are able to infect a host with a compromised immune system .
increased susceptibility to bacterial infections of the skin ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of infectious dermatitis .
abnormal increased size of the posterior cranial fossa .
a myeloproliferative disorder characterized by increased proliferation of the granulocytic cell line without the loss of their capacity to differentiate .
presence of a monoclonal immunoglobulin m protein in the serum .
congenital onset of a marked decrease in the number of granulocytes .
an anomaly of the form or number of cells in the bone marrow .
a foot deformity resulting due to an abnormality affecting the muscle and soft tissue .
a type of dysharmonic skeletal maturation in which there is a delay in skeletal maturation whose degree differs markedly in different bones .
obstruction of the flow of urine through the ureter .
an abnormality of the islet of langerhans ,  i .e . ,  of the regions of the pancreas that contain its endocrine cells .
the presence of an altered number of of teeth .
a bending or abnormal curvature of a long bone .
accumulation of amorphous pas - positive material in the space betweem alveolar macrophages ,  sometimes as condensed form  ( oval bodies )  are typically found in alveolar proteinosis .
abnormality of the lung parenchyma extending to the pulmonary interstitium and leading to diffuse pulmonary fibrosis .
the presence of excessive connective tissue in the endocardium .
an abnormality of an atrioventricular valve .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the stomach .
absence or underdevelopment of the vermis of cerebellum .
the presence of atrophy  ( wasting )  of the cerebrum ,  also known as the telencephalon ,  the largest and most highly developed part of the human brain .
absence or underdevelopment of the corpus callosum .
wasting involving the motor neuron .
an abnormality of the septum pellucidum ,  which is a thin ,  triangular ,  vertical membrane separating the lateral ventricles of the brain .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the gastrointestinal tract .
hyperkeratosis affecting the sole of the foot .
abnormal development  ( dysgenesis )  of the anterior segment of the eye globe .
absence of the crystalline lens of the eye as a result of a developmental defect .
macular dystrophy is a nonspecific term for premature retinal cell aging and cell death ,  generally confied to the macula in which no clear extrinsic cause is evident .
ocular abnormality characterised by premature degeneration of the vitreous and the retina that may be associated with increased risk of retinal detachment .
punched out lesions in the pigmented layer of the retina .
a reduction of corneal clarity .
retinitis pigmentosa inversa is form of retinal degeneration characterized by areas of retinal / chorioretinal degeneration with pigment migration in the macular area  ( in contrast to retinitis pigmentosa which ,  at early disease stages ,  predominantly affects the retinal periphery )  .
absence or underdevelopment of the iris .
absence or underdevelopment of the uvea ,  the pigmented middle layer of the eye consisting of the iris and ciliary body together with the choroid .
absence or underdevelopment of the anterior segment of the eye .
absence or underdevelopment of the lens .
the presence of one or more bullae on the skin ,  defined as fluid - filled blisters more than 5 mm in diameter with thin walls .
reduced density of hairs .
increased blood pressure during a pregnancy .
reduced activity of coagulation factor vii .
reduced activity of coagulation factor x .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the nail .
a nail of the fifth finger that is diminished in length and width ,  i .e . ,  underdeveloped nail of little finger .
an abnormality of the morphology or structure of the middle ear .
incomplete maturation or aberrant formation of the male gametes .
reduced volume of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
any structural abnormality of the renal artery .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short limbs but an average - sized trunk .
disproportionate shortening of the proximal segment of limbs  ( i .e .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of one or more components of the skeleton .
absence or underdevelopment of the mandible .
an abnormality of the axial skeleton ,  which comprises the skull ,  the vertebral column ,  the ribs and the sternum .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of bones of the axial skeleton .
an abnormality of adipose tissue ,  which is loose connective tissue composed of adipocytes .
degenerative changes of the fat tissue .
any structural anomaly of a cerebral artery .
contractures of one ore more joints of the hands meaning chronic loss of joint motion due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
an abnormality of the epididymis .
double rows of eyelashes .
partial fusion of the upper and lower eyelid margins by single or multiple bands of tissue .
chronic pain in the limbs with no clear focal etiology .
cholesteatoma is a benign but potentially destructive growth consisting of keratinizing epithelium located in the middle ear and / or mastoid process .
the presence of a reduced number of teeth as in hypodontia or as in anodontia .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the extremities .
limb shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the extremities .
congenital absence  ( aplasia )  of one or more limbs .
an abnormality of hair pigmentation  ( color )  .
absence or underdevelopment of the tongue .
a heterogeneous group of congenital spinal anomalies that result from defective closure of the neural tube early in fetal life .
stridor is a high pitched sound resulting from turbulent air flow in the upper airway .
absence or underdevelopment of the breasts .
ebstein's anomaly refers to an abnormally placed and deformed tricuspid valve characterized by apical displacement of the septal and posterior tricuspid valve leaflets ,  leading to atrialization of the right ventricle with a variable degree of malformation and displacement of the anterior leaflet .
a congenital anomaly characterized by the presence of supernumerary fingers or toes .
abnormality of the female genital system .
abnormality of the male genital system .
the onset of puberty before the age of 8 years in girls .
absence or underdevelopment of the testes .
a learning disorder characterized primarily by difficulties in learning to read and spell .
an inability or difficulty differentiating among the fingers of either hand as well as the hands of others .
inability to recognize the form of objects by touch without visual input .
inability to recognize faces of familiar persons .
an intermittent cessation of airflow at the mouth and nose during sleep .
the presence of convoluted folds and furrows formed from thickened skin of the scalp ,  resembling cerebriform pattern .
paralysis of voluntary muscles means loss of contraction due to interruption of one or more motor pathways from the brain to the muscle fibers .
weakness of both lower extremities with sparing of the upper extremities .
a disordered proliferation of mature tissues that is native to the site of origin ,  e .g . ,  exostoses ,  nevi and soft tissue hamartomas .
a cystic lesion originating within the brain .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the skeleton .
an abnormality of the meninges ,  including any abnormality of the dura mater ,  the arachnoid mater ,  and the pia mater .
an abnormality of the zygomatic bone .
the presence of an abnormal curvature of the vertebral column .
an abnormal deviation from normal levels of immunoglobulins in blood .
an increased level of gamma globulin  ( immunoglobulin )  in the blood .
an abnormality of the texture of the hair .
nodular changes affecting the eyelids may have many different causes such as cystic lesions  ( chalaziae ,  hordeolae )  ,  lipogranulomas ,  melanomas ,  infectious diseases  ( molluscum contagiosum )  and many more .
a chordoma is a tumors that arises from embryonic remnants of the notochord along the length of the neuraxis .
hyperkeratosis affecting the palm of the hand .
deposition of calcium salts in a tissue or location in which calcification does not normally occur .
redness of the skin ,  caused by hyperemia of the capillaries in the lower layers of the skin .
severe mental retardation is defined as an intelligence quotient  ( iq )  in the range of 20 - 34 .
an incomplete closure of the abdominal wall .
an abnormal level of a circulating protein in the blood .
shortening of the extremities affecting primarily the distal parts of the limbs  ( hands and feet )  in relation to the other segments of the limbs .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a branched chain family amino acid in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of valine in the blood .
an increased concentration of leucine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal circulation of valine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of tyrosine in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of a homocysteine metabolic process .
an abnormality of divalent inorganic cation homeostasis .
an abnormality of cation homeostasis .
an abnormality of monovalent inorganic cation homeostasis .
an abnormality of a nucleobase metabolic process .
an abnormality of the upper urinary tract .
an abnormality of the lower urinary tract .
an abnormality of the fourth ventricle .
a kind of anemia characterized by inadequate production of erythrocytes .
an abnormality of myeloid leukocytes .
a deviation from the normal count of b cells ,  i .e . ,  the cells that are formed in the bone marrow ,  migrate to the peripheral lymphatic system ,  and mature into plasma cells or memory cells .
an abnormal decrease from the normal count of b cells .
a functional abnormality of the immune system .
an abnormal increase or decrease in the level of lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on the sex chromosomes .
an abnormality of the morphology or counts of the cells that make up the immune system .
an abnormality of the extrinsic pathway  ( also known as the tissue factor pathway )  of the coagulation cascade .
an abnormality of the intrinsic pathway  ( also known as the contact activation pathway )  of the coagulation cascade .
an abnormality of blood coagulation ,  common pathway .
an abnormality of the cerebral subcortex .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a dicarboxylic acid in the blood circulation .
an abnormal increase of bone mineral density ,  that is ,  of the amount of matter per cubic centimeter of bones which is often referred to as osteosclerosis .
abnormally increased formation of dense trabecular bone tissue .
an abnormality of the systemic arterial tree ,  which consists of the aorta and other systemic arteries .
the speed at which disease manifestations appear and develop .
a deviation from the normal concentration of a carbohydrate in the blood circulation .
abnormality of glucose homeostasis .
an abnormality of the concentration of glucose in the blood .
an abnormality of the concentration of glucose in the urine .
an abnormality in a cellular process .
an abnormality of the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormal functionality of the cardiovascular system .
an abnormality of blood circulation .
the presence of hemorrhage within the body .
an abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of transition element cation .
an abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of iron cation .
an abnormality of the regulation of body fluids .
an abnormality of the cortex of the kidney .
an abnormal concentration of potassium .
an abnormal concentration of corticotropin in the blood .
recurrent episodes of ulceration of the oral mucosa ,  typically presenting as painful ,  sharply circumscribed fibrin - covered mucosal defects with a hyperemic border .
inflammation of the tonsils that has occurred repeatedly .
any morphological abnormality of the skin .
any abnormality of the physiological function of the skin .
the presence of inflammation of the skin .
an abnormality of the skin adnexa  ( skin appendages )  ,  which are specialized skin structures located within the dermis and focally within the subcutaneous fatty tissue ,  comprising three histologically distinct structures:  ( 1 )  the pilosebaceous unit  ( hair follicle and sebaceous glands )  ;   ( 2 )  the eccrine sweat glands ;  and  ( 3 )  the apocrine glands .
a dialeptic seizure is a type of seizure characterised predominantly by reduced responsiveness or awareness and with subsequent at least partial amnesia of the event .
a typical absence seizure is a type of generalised non - motor  ( absence )  seizure characterised by its sudden onset ,  interruption of ongoing activities ,  a blank stare ,  possibly a brief upward deviation of the eyes .
forward prominence of the entire forehead ,  due to protrusion of the frontal bone .
absence or underdevelopment of the eyelid .
an abnormality of calcium concentration in the urine .
an abnormality of the hindbrain ,  also known as the rhombencephalon .
an abnormality of the metencephalon .
a morphological abnormality of a digit ,  i .e . ,  of a finger or toe .
an abnormality of size or shape of the long bones .
an abnormality of the vermilion border ,  the sharp demarcation between the lip  ( red colored )  and the adjacent normal skin .
an abnormality of the skin that is not localized to any one particular region .
a lesion of the skin that is located in a specific region rather than being generalized .
an abnormality of the skin that is restricted to a particular body region .
an abnormal amount of hair .
thickening of the epidermal layer of the skin .
a morphological abnormality of the vestibule ,  the central part of the osseous labyrinth that is situated medial to the tympanic cavity ,  behind the cochlea ,  and in front of the semicircular canals .
increased size of the vestibular aqueduct .
an abnormality of the function of the inner ear .
a structural anomaly of the internal part of the ear .
an abnormality of myelination of nerves in the central nervous system .
the age group when the cessation of life happens .
an anomaly of the control or production of movement in the central nervous system .
cognitive ,  psychiatric or memory anomaly .
a type of infection of the central nervous system that can be regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection .
an abnormality of the function of the middle ear .
a subjective manifestation of disease localized to the abdomen .
onset prior to birth but after 8 weeks of embryonic development  ( corresponding to a gestational age of 10 weeks )  .
onset of disease at the age of between 1 and 5 years .
abnormality of the corneal epithelium ,  that is of the epithelial tissue that covers the front of the cornea .
an abnormality of binocular vision ,  that is of the ability to synthesize the visual inputs from both eyes to a single image with perception of depth .
a deviance in the normal connections between two cardiac segements .
an abnormality of the circulatory connection between the ventricles and the pulmonary artery and aorta .
defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the aorta and pulmonary arteries .
any cardiac rhythm other than the normal sinus rhythm .
an abnormality in the range and ease of motion of joints across their normal range .
an abnormality of sensation related to cns function .
a functional abnormality of the adrenal glands .
an abnormality of the adenohypophysis ,  which is also known as the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland .
a functional abnormality of the parathyroid gland .
a structural abnormality of the thyroid gland .
neoplasm categorized according to type of histological abnormality .
neoplasm categorized according to the anatomical site of origin of the neoplasm .
a functional abnormality of a skeletal muscle .
a structural abnormality of a skeletal muscle .
an abnormality of one or more of the set of bones that make up the facial skeleton .
abnormality of the oral mucosa .
an abnormality of the form ,  structure ,  or size of the skeletal system .
an abnormality of the function of the skeletal system .
an abnormality of the appendicular skeletal system ,  consisting of the of the limbs ,  shoulder and pelvic girdles .
any anomaly in the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
decreased activity of coagulation factor ix .
abnormal number of platelets per volume of blood .
number of leukocytes per volume of blood beyond normal limits .
a type of anemia related to a reduction in the average life span of red blood cells in the peripheral circulation ,  which is normally around 120 days .
one or more digit that appears disproportionately short compared to the hand / foot ,  whereby either the entire digit or a specific phalanx is shortened .
an infection of the upper or lower respiratory tract .
absence of any measurable level of sperm in his semen ,  resulting from post - testicular obstruction or retrograde ejaculation .
increased activity of coagulation factor v ,  factor v ,  which is activated to factor va by means of minute amounts of thrombin  ( and inactivated by larger amounts of thrombin )  .
excretion of urine with an acid ph ,  i .e . ,  having an increased hydrogen ion concentration .
an anomaly of the function of the pancreas .
a function abnormality of the endocrine pancreas .
deviation from normal concentration of albumin in the blood .
any structural anomaly of the acrosome resulting in a round sperm head .
any structural anomaly of the kidney .
an abnormal functionality of the kidney .
an erythematous eruption commonly associated with drug reactions or infection and characterized by inflammatory nodules that are usually tender ,  multiple ,  and bilateral .
a structural or developmental anomaly of any of the tissues involved in the genital system .
a structural anomaly of the respiratory system .
myoclonus that occurs during the initial phases of sleep .
a functional abnormality of the autonomic nervous system .
an anomaly in the processes involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium .
an abnormality of the malar surface of the zygomatic bone and including the frontal process of maxilla .
a structural anomaly of the globe of the eye ,  or bulbus oculi .
a functional anomaly of the eye .
an allergy is an immune response or reaction to substances that are usually not harmful .
an abnormality of the partial pressure of oxygen or carbon dioxide in the arterial blood .
an abnormally low level of blood oxygen .
a structural abnormality of the biliary tree .
a structural abnormality of the brain ,  which has as its parts the forebrain ,  midbrain ,  and hindbrain .
partial or complete wasting  ( loss )  of brain tissue that was once present .
any anomaly in the process by which myelin sheaths are formed and maintained around neurons .
an anomaly of the pituitary gland .
an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage ,  or described in terms of such damage .
persistent pain ,  usually defined as pain that has lasted longer than 3 to 6 months .
an anomaly in the communication from a neuron to a target across a synapse .
a structural anomaly of the nephron .
an abnormality in the concentration of electrolytes in the urine .
an anomalous finding in the examination of the urine for cells .
a functional anomaly of the nervous system .
a structural anomaly of the nervous system .
any anomaly of the inflammatory response ,  a response to injury or infection characterized by local vasodilation ,  extravasation of plasma into intercellular spaces and accumulation of white blood cells and macrophages .
a abnormal increase in the inflammatory response to injury or infection .
a functional anomaly of the large intestine .
abnormal structure of the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormal functionality of the gastrointestinal tract .
absence of the tongue owing to a developmental abnormality .
an abnormality of the anus or rectum .
a sudden ,  audible expulsion of air from the lungs through a partially closed glottis ,  preceded by inhalation .
a structural anomaly of a neuron .
a deviation from normal of the neurological development of a child ,  which may include any or all of the aspects of the development of personal ,  social ,  gross or fine motor ,  and cognitive abilities .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the ear .
a morphological abnormality of the optic disc ,  i .e . ,  of the portion of the optic nerve clinically visible on fundoscopic examination .
this subontology is designed to provide terms to characterize and specify the phenotypic abnormalities defined in the phenotypic abnormality subontology ,  with respect to severity ,  laterality ,  age of onset ,  and other aspects .
the intensity or degree of a manifestation .
having a relatively minor degree of severity .
having a medium degree of severity .
having a high degree of severity .
any structural anomaly of a reproductive cell .
a structural anomaly of a male reproductive cell .
a structural anomaly of sperm .
a structural abnormality of the sperm head .
an abnormal functionality of the male genital system .
an anomaly of the neck of the uterus  ( lower part of the uterus )  ,  called the uterine cervix .
any deviation from the normal number of eosinophils per volume in the blood circulation .
any deviation of the concentration of one or more proteins in the urine .
a motor seizure is a type of seizure that is characterized at onset by involvement of the skeletal musculature .
a functional anomaly of the digestive system .
a structural anomaly of the digestive system .
passage of many stools containing blood .
a deviation from normal concentration of the hormone estrogen in the blood circulation .
a symptom or manifestation indicating a systemic or general effect of a disease and that may affect the general well - being or status of an individual .
short - lived and not permanent .this term applies to a phenotypic abnormality that is temporary and of short duration .
an undesirable physical event or experience that occur during entry into sleep ,  during sleep ,  or during arousal from sleep .
any physiological abnormality of the esophagus .
any functional anomaly of the skin adnexa  ( skin appendages )  ,  which are specialized skin structures located within the dermis and focally within the subcutaneous fatty tissue ,  comprising three histologically distinct structures:  ( 1 )  the pilosebaceous unit  ( hair follicle and sebaceous glands )  ;   ( 2 )  the eccrine sweat glands ;  and  ( 3 )  the apocrine glands .
sweating provoked by cold temperature rather than by heat .
an anomaly of arterial function .
a reddish appearance over the white part  ( sclera )  of the eye ranging from a few enlarged blood vessels appearing as wiggly lines over the sclera to a bright red color completely covering to sclera .
an anomaly of cellular morphology or physiology .
any anomaly of the structure of the spleen .
any anomaly of the structure of the larynx .
any structural anomaly of the bronchi ,  i .e . ,  of the airways leading from the trachea to the lungs .
any structural abnormality of the right atrium .
a functional abnormality of the ureter .
a problem occurring during any phase of the female sexual response cycle that prevents the individual from experiencing satisfaction from the sexual activity
recurrent or persistent genital pain associated with sexual intercourse .
abnormal consumption of fluids with excessive or insufficient consumption of fluid or any other abnormal pattern of fluid consumption .
abnormal growth of tissue projecting from a mucous membrane of the endocervix .
abnormality of vascular function .
tremor that occurs during any voluntary movement .
an anomaly in the communication from a neuron to a target across a synapse in the peripheral nervous system .
difficulty in recognizing objects by visual input in absence of sensorial visual impairment .
abnormalities of the overall muscle bulk based on clinical observation .
an anomaly in the blood concentration of an androgen ,  that is ,  of a steroid hormone that controls development and maintenance of masculine characteristics .
an elevation of the blood concentration of an androgen ,  that is ,  of a steroid hormone that controls development and maintenance of masculine characteristics .
a structural anomaly of the adjacent structures  ( i .e . ,  adnexa )  of the eye ,  defined as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva .
onset prior to birth .
any structural anomaly of the heart and great vessels .
any structural anomaly of the muscular columns which project from the inner surface of the right and left ventricles of the heart  ( cardiac trabeculae ,  trabeculae carneae )  .
left ventricular noncompaction  ( lvnc )  is defined by 3 markers: prominent left ventricular  ( lv )  trabeculae ,  deep intertrabecular recesses ,  and the thin compacted layer .
increase in size of the right atrium .
a fluid - filled sac  ( cyst )  located within the central nervous system .
brown or blue - gray discoloration of the skin that can present on the axillary and inguinal areas ,  face ,  palms or soles .
a structural anomaly of the jaw ,  the bony structure of the mouth that consists of the mandible and the maxilla .
any structural anomaly of the tongue .
any functional anomaly of the tongue .
change in the color of the fundus from red in the dark - adapted state to golden immediately or shortly after the onset of the light .
a high - pitched whistling sound associated with labored breathing .
an anomalous  ( adventitious )  sound produced by the breathing process .
an anomaly of the pulse pressure ,  which is defined as the systolic pressured minus the diastolic pressure .
increased amplitude of the pulse pressure  ( systolic blood pressure minus diastolic blood pressure )  .
a functional anomaly of that portion of the cardiosvascular system that carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood back to the heart .
an anomaly of the muscular contractions that propel food though the gastrointestinal tract .
an anomaly of the electrical conduction physiology of the heart .
a structural anomaly affecting a blood vessel involved in the circulation of the heart ,  i .e . ,  the superior or inferior vena cava ,  the pulmonary arteries ,  the pulmonary veins ,  and the aorta .
a chronic deviation from normal pressure in the systemic arterial system .
a deviation from the normal activity of coagulation factor viii .
an abnormal immunoglobulin or part of an ig  ( light chain )  in the circulation .
difficulty in performing one or more activities normally performed every day ,  such as eating ,  bathing ,  dressing ,  grooming ,  work ,  homemaking ,  and leisure .
partial or total incontinence of bowel or bladder .
any anomaly of the structure of the breast .
any deviation from the normal amount of the thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  ,  which is produced by the anterior pituitary gland and stimulates the function of the thyroid gland .
hepatocytes  ( liver parenchymal cells )  exhibit a bloated appearance because of expansion of the cytoplasm by accumulated material .
any structural anomaly of the muscular columns which project from the inner surface of the left ventricle of the heart  ( cardiac trabeculae ,  trabeculae carneae )  .
a type of cough characterized by a burst of numerous and rapid coughs followed by a long inhaling effort that is accompanied by a high - pitched whooping sound produced by the inhalation of air .
any anomolous structure of the renal corpuscle ,  which is the initial component of the nephron that filters blood .
a type of transposition of the great arteries  ( tga )  in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the right of the pulmonary artery .
purpura that is flat  ( non - palpable ,  not raised )  .
applies to a sign or symptom that is difficult to treat or cure .
any anomaly of lymphocyte function .
a maladaptive personality trait characterized by moderate or greater impairment in personality  ( self  / interpersonal )  functioning .
any functional anomaly of the mitral valve .
any functional defect of the mitral or tricuspid valve .
any functional abnormality of a cardiac valve .
an infection that is caused by a pathogen that would generally not be able to cause an infection in a host with a normal immune system .
an unusually severe viral infection .
an unusually severe adenovirus infection .
any structural anomaly of the ear .
any functional anomaly of the ear .
the course a disease typically takes from its onset ,  progression in time ,  and eventual resolution or death of the affected individual .
any structural anomaly of the mouth ,  which is also known as the oral cavity .
any deviation from the activity of coagulation factor v .
this term groups terms representing abnormal findings derived from chest x - ray investigation of the lung .
abnormal appearance of material expectorated  ( coughed up )  from the respiratory system and that is composed of mucus but may contain other substances such as pus ,  blood ,  microorganisms ,  and fibrin .
an anomaly of the adjacent structures  ( i .e . ,  adnexa )  of the eye ,  defined as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva .
a type of infection that is regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection .
oral aphthous ulcers typically present as painful ,  sharply circumscribed fibrin - covered mucosal defects with a hyperemic border .
an unusual infection classified by the affected body part .
a type of infection that is regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection because of unusual severity or intensity of the infection .
an abnormal level of an analyte measured in the blood .
an abnormality in the function of the chemical reactions related to processes including conversion of food to enter ,  synthesis of proteins ,  lipids ,  nucleic acids ,  and carbohydrates ,  or the elimination of waste products .
abnormal increase in blood pressure .
any deviation from the normal cell count per volume of granulocytes in the blood circulation .
an abnormally low blood ph  ( usually defined as less than 7 .35 )  .
seizure associated with a presumed or proven infection  ( excluding infection of the central nervous system )  or inflammatory state without an alternative precipitant such as metabolic derangement ,  and regardless of the presence or absence of a fever .
any form of seizure occurring at the time of a fever  ( temperature at or above 38 .0 degrees celcius )  without infection of the central nervous system ,  and without an alternative cause such as severe metabolic derangement ,  occurring at any age .
a deviation of urine ph from the normal range of 4 .5 to 7 .8 .
abnormal type or counts of nucleated immune cells and acellular components in bronchoalveolar lavage  ( bal )  fluid .
abnormal activity of coagulation factor ix .
an elevated level of a proteinogenic amino acid in the urine .
an elevated level of a proteinogenic amino acid in the blood circulation .
an anomaly of the musculoskeletal system ,  which consists of the bones of the skeleton ,  muscles ,  cartilage ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  joints ,  and other connective tissue .
a seizure with clinical manifestation but without motor signs  ( other than possible behavior arrest )  as its initial clinical manifestation .
any structural anomaly of a blood vessel  ( artery ,  arteriole ,  capillary ,  venule ,  or vein )  .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a metabolite in urine .
ischemia is defined as a restriction of arterial blood supply to a tissue associated with insufficient oxygenation to support the metabolis requirements of the tissue .
a deviation from the normal concentration of renin in the blood ,  a central hormone in the control of blood pressure and various other physiological functions .
any abnormality in the total number of lymphocytes in the blood .
a deviation from the normal concentration of cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  in the blood .
an abnormally increased head circumference in a growing child .
an abnormally reduced head circumference in a growing child .
an abnormality of the skin of the palm ,  that is ,  the skin of the front of the hand .
an abnormal concentration of insulin in the body .
an abnormal concentration of insulin in the blood .
a problem occurring during any phase of the male sexual response cycle that prevents the individual from experiencing satisfaction from the sexual activity
a rare condition that is characterized by a complete loss of taste function of the tongue .
an anomaly of the size of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
an early onset of puberty ,  in this case early does not refer to precocious .
an abnormality of movement with a neurological basis characterized by changes in coordination and speed of voluntary movements .
repeated ,  individually recognizable ,  intermittent movements or movement fragments that are almost always briefly suppresable and are usually associated with awareness of an urge to perform the movement .
movement - based tics affecting discrete muscle groups .
involuntary sounds produced by moving air through the nose ,  mouth ,  or throat .
an abnormality of the hair of head .
a contraction of the diaphragm that repeats several times per minute .
the presence of dysplastic regions in metaphyseal regions .
a condition in which middle parts of the hands and / or feet  ( digits and meta - carpals and  - tarsals )  are missing giving a cleft appearance .
an abnormality of the structure or form of the tendons ,  also often called sinews .
a depression located on a lip .
a small ,  skin - lined tract that leads from the surface to deep within the tissues .
the presence of inclusion bodies within the cytoplasm of muscle cells .
nuclear or cytoplasmic aggregates of stainable substances within cells of the brain .
a chronic autoimmune phenomenon characterized by fibrosis  ( or hardening )  and vascular alterations of the skin .
immunological states where the immune system produces harmful responses upon reexposure to sensitising antigens .
an anomaly in the metabolism of a vitamin .
a reduced concentration of vitamin d .
tumor of the lung .
an abnormality of phosphate homeostasis or concentration in the body .
inflammation of the eye ,  parts of the eye or the periorbital region .
abnormality in the process of thought including the ability to process information .
narrowing or constriction of the inner surface  ( lumen )  of an artery .
an abnormality of the forebrain ,  which has as its parts the telencephalon ,  diencephalon ,  lateral ventricles and third ventricle .
an inflammation of the endocardium ,  the inner layer of the heart ,  which usually involves the heart valves .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the respiratory system .
a multidimensional but common male sexual dysfunction that involves an alteration in any of the components of the erectile response ,  including organic ,  relational and psychological .
presence of a cyst  ( sac - like structure )  located in the larynx .
a bacterial infection and inflammation of the skin und subcutaneous tissues .
an anomaly of the cerebral blood vessels .
aggression towards oneself .
an anomaly of the lymphatic system ,  a network of lymphatic vessels that carry a clear fluid called lymph unidirectionally towards either the right lymphatic duct or the thoracic duct ,  which in turn drain into the right and left subclavian veins respectively .
an abnormality of the tonsils .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the middle ear .
systemic inflammatory response to infection .
an acute hypersensitivity reaction due to exposure to a previously encountered antigen .
an abnormality of emotional behaviour .
an abnormality of fear / anxiety - related behavior ,  which may relate to either abnormally reduced fear / anxiety - related response or increased fear / anxiety - related response .
an abnormality of the palm ,  that is ,  of the front of the hand .
an abnormality of the plantar part of foot ,  that is of the soles of the feet .
an abnormality in the placement of the ocular globe  ( eyeball )  .
an abnormality in the size of the ocular globe  ( eyeball )  .
any structural abnormality of the medulla of the kidney .
different levels of maturation of different bones .
morphologically similar to a papule ,  but greater than either 10mm in both width and depth ,  and most frequently centered in the dermis or subcutaneous fat .
a discontinuity of the skin exhibiting complete loss of the epidermis and often portions of the dermis and even subcutaneous fat .
repeated episodes of abortion  ( expulsion of the product of fertilization before completing the term of gestation )  without deliberate interference .
any abnormality of the part of the nervous system that consists of the nerves and ganglia outside of the brain and spinal cord .
any structural anomaly of the bile - secreting organ that is important for detoxification ,  for fat ,  carbohydrate ,  and protein metabolism ,  and for glycogen storage .
any structural anomaly of the hollow epithelial tube found on the dorsal side of the vertebrate embryo that develops into the central nervous system  ( i .e .
an abnormal deviation from normal levels of igm immunoglobulin in blood .
onset of disease manifestations before adulthood ,  defined here as before the age of 15 years ,  but excluding neonatal or congenital onset .
an abnormality of the partial pressure of oxygen in the arterial blood .
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a mental process that creates ,  modifies or has as participant some cognitive representation .
a mental process that involves the manipulation of mental language and / or mental images
consciousness is an inseparable part of all mental processes .
a mental process is a bodily process that is of a type such that it can of itself be conscious .
a dependent continuant which is about a portion of reality .
a representation which specifically depends on an anatomical structure in the cognitive system of an organism .
a bodily disposition is a disposition that inheres in some extended organism .
a mental disposition is a bodily disposition that is realized in a mental process .
orgasm is the sudden discharge of accumulated sexual tension during the sexual response cycle ,  resulting in rhythmic muscular contractions in the pelvic region characterized by sexual pleasure .
intentionality is the fundamental quality of conscious mental processes of always having content ,  of being directed towards ,  or about something .
a bodily quality is a quality that inheres in some extended organism .
a mental quality is a bodily quality that inheres in those structures of the extended organism that are essential for mental functioning .
a structural capacity that shapes how an object of intentionality is represented for the subject .
a developmental disorder of the eye characterized by unilateral or bilateral microphthalmia associated with ocular coloboma .
a allergy involving gluten .
a allergy involving pollen .
a allergy involving a phleum pratense .
a allergy involving a metal allergen .
a allergy involving a malus domestica .
a allergy involving a prunus armeniaca .
a fruit allergy triggered by citrus sinensis plant fruit food product .
a allergy involving a prunus persica .
a allergy involving a prunus domestica .
a allergy involving a solanum lycopersicum .
a allergy involving fish .
a allergy involving a gadus morhua .
a allergy involving a salmo salar .
a allergy involving a cyprinus carpio .
a allergy involving a oncorhynchus mykiss .
a allergy involving a beta - lactam .
an allergy to penicillin .
a allergy involving cow mile .
a allergy involving goat milk .
a allergic disease involving a mollusc food product .
a allergic disease involving a crustacean food product .
a allergic disease involving a brown shrimp .
a allergic disease involving a green mud crab .
a allergic disease involving a indian prawn .
a allergy involving a penaeus monodon .
a allergy involving a litopenaeus schmitti .
a allergic disease involving a snail food product .
a allergy involving a turbo cornutus .
a bone structure disease that results in change or damage of structure located in bone .
a bundle branch block in which the activation of the left ventricle is delayed .
gastrointestinal disturbances ,  skin eruptions ,  or shock due to allergic reactions to allergens in food .
a group of metabolic diseases due to deficiency of one of a number of liver enzymes in the biosynthetic pathway of heme .
familial embryonal neoplasm derived from nephrogenic blastemal cells .
an inflammatory process affecting a joint .
allergic reaction to eggs that is triggered by the immune system .
interauricular communication is a congenital malformation characterized by a communication between the atrial chambers of the heart .
allergic reaction to tree nuts that is triggered by the immune system .
allergic reaction to wheat that is triggered by the immune system .
any frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the c9orf72 gene .
an atrial heart septal defect type 1 associated with variation in the region 5p .
atrial septal defect  ( asd )  with atrioventricular conduction defects is an extremely rare genetic congenital heart disease characterized by the presence of asd ,  mostly of the ostium secundum type ,  associated with conduction anomalies like atrioventricular block ,  atrial fibrillation or right bundle branch block .
a chronic inherited arthropathy characterized by chondrocalcinosis  ( cc ;  i .e .
any craniosynostosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the twist1 gene .
any multinodular goiter in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dicer1 gene .
an autosomal dominant inherited syndrome characterized by the development of parathyroid adenoma or carcinoma ,  ossifying fibroma of the mandible and maxilla ,  renal neoplasms ,  and renal cysts .
microcephaly with or without chorioretinopathy ,  lymphedema or intellectual disability  ( mclid )  is a rare autosomal dominant condition characterized by variable expression of microcephaly ,  ocular disorders including chorioretinopathy ,  congenital lymphedema of the lower limbs ,  and mild to moderate intellectual disability .
laing distal myopathy ,  also called myopathy distal ,  type 1  ( mpd1 )  ,  is characterized by early - onset selective weakness of the great toe and ankle dorsiflexors ,  and a very slowly progressive course .
a localized aggressive periodontitis ,  formerly called localized juvenile periodontitis .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd1 on chromosome 5q23 - q35 .
a very rare type of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia described in fewer than 10 patients to date and characterized clinically by dysplastic epiphyses ,  short stature appearing in infancy ,  short neck ,  short and stubby hands and feet ,  scoliosis ,  genu valgum ,  abnormal pelvis ,  osteoporosis and osteoarthritis .
a rare ,  hereditary ,  hemolytic anemia due to a red cell membrane anomaly characterized by fatigue ,  mild anemia and pseudohyperkalemia due to a potassium leak from the red blood cells .
any carpenter syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the rab23 gene .
a recessive syndrome characterized by craniosynostosis ,  mental retardation ,  seizures ,  choroidal coloboma ,  dysplastic kidneys ,  bat ears ,  cleft lip and palate ,  and beaked nose .
an ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by hair ,  skin and teeth anomalies ,  facial dysmophism with cleft lip and palate ,  cutaneous syndactyly and ,  in some cases ,  intellectual disability .
a trichothiodystrophy that is non - photosensitive
sudden infant death syndrome  ( sids )  is the unexpected ,  sudden death of a child under age 1 which cannot be explained after a thorough investigation is conducted .
a severe x - linked recessive neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by severe contractures  ( arthrogryposis )  and intellectual disability .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd3 on chromosome 6p23 .
nocturnal enuresis with at least 3 nightly episodes in children older than 7 years ,  where the child has always had the disorder .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the chmp2b gene .
classical progressive supranuclear palsy ,  also known as richardson's syndrome ,  is the most common clinical variant of progressive supranuclear palsy  ( psp )  ,  a rare late - onset neurodegenerative disease characterized by postural instability ,  progressive rigidity ,  supranuclear gaze palsy and mild dementia .
a spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia characterized by spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ,  craniosynostosis ,  cataracts ,  cleft palate and intellectual deficit .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd6 on chromosome 8p21 .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in a mutation on chromosome 6q13 - q26 .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd7 on chromosome 13q32 .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd8 on chromosome 18p .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd2 on chromosome 11q14 - q21 .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in an autosomal dominant mutation of sczd10 on chromosome 15q15 .
spinocerebellar ataxia with axonal neuropathy type 1 is a rare ,  genetic neurological disorder characterized by a late childhood onset of slowly progressive cerebellar ataxia .
a migraine disorder characterized by episodes that occur in the absence of preceding focal neurological symptoms .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gata4 gene .
a rare partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 14 characterized by ocular anomalies  ( anopthalmia / microphthalmia ,  ptosis ,  hypertelorism ,  exophthalmos )  ,  pituitary anomalies  ( pituitary hypoplasia / aplasia with growth hormone deficiency and growth retardation )  and hand / foot anomalies  ( polydactyly ,  short digits ,  pes cavus )  .
any dysequilibrium syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the wdr81 gene .
any congenital anomaly of kidney and urinary tract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the dstyk gene .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tbx20 gene .
a sub - phenotype of wagr that includes obesity ,  and is associated with mutation ( s )  in the bdnf gene .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the actc1 gene .
a schizophrenia that has material basis in a mutation on chromosome 15q13 .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tll1 gene .
an autosomal recessive inherited congenital muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the pomt2 gene .
any dysequilibrium syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ca8 gene .
any amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vcp gene .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the myh6 gene .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the cited2 gene .
any atrial heart septal defect in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the gata6 gene .
non - progressive cerebellar ataxia with intellectual deficit is a rare subtype of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type 1  ( adca type 1 )  characterized by the onset in infancy of cerebellar ataxia ,  neonatal hypotonia  ( in some )  ,  mild developmental delay and ,  in later life ,  intellectual disability .
any carpenter syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the megf8 gene .
any dysequilibrium syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the atp8a2 gene .
any craniosynostosis in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tcf12 gene .
an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that has material basis in mutation in the chchd10 gene on chromosome 22 .
an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that has material basis in mutation in the sqstm1 gene on chromosome 5q35 .
an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that has material basis in mutation in the tbk1 gene on chromosome 12q14 .
any infantile liver failure in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the nbas gene .
ring chromosome 1 syndrome is an autosomal anomaly characterized by variable clinical features ,  most commonly including significant intrauterine and postnatal growth failure ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  microcephaly ,  and dysmorphic facial features .
ring chromosome 17 syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome ,  resulting from partial deletion of chromosome 17 ,  characterized by highly variable manifestations ,  ranging from a severe phenotype which presents with lissencephaly and severe intellectual disability to a milder phenotype that includes short stature ,  microcephaly ,  intellectual disability ,  seizures  ( that may be pharmacoresistant )  ,  caf - au - lait spots ,  retinal flecks and minor facial dysmorphism ,  depending on the presence or absence of the miller - dieker critical region .
ring chromosome 18 syndrome is an autosomal anomaly characterized by variable clinical features ,  most commonly including hypotonia ,  neonatal feeding and respiratory difficulties ,  microcephaly ,  global developmental delay and intellectual disability ,  growth hormone deficiency ,  hypothyroidism ,  hearing loss ,  aural atresia ,  dysmorphic facial features and behavioral characteristics .
ring chromosome 21 syndrome is an autosomal anomaly characterized by variable clinical features ,  most commonly including growth retardation ,  developmental delay ,  intellectual disability ,  epilepsy ,  microcephaly ,  short stature ,  dysmorphic features ,  hypogammaglobulinemia ,  thrombocytopenia and unspecific skeletal anomalies  ( hemivertebrae ,  clinodactyly ,  syndactyly )  .
a cluster of closely related metabolic abnormalities associated with insulin resistance that confer an increased risk of the development of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease .
an inherited giant platelet disorder with a complex phenotype characterized by congenital thrombocytopenia and possible subsequent manifestations of sensorineural hearing loss ,  presenile cataracts ,  elevation of liver enzymes ,  and / or progressive nephropathy often leading to end - stage renal disease  ( esrd )  .
surgically correctable forms of primary aldosteronism  ( also known as primary hyperaldosteronism )  are characterized by unilateral aldosterone hypersecretion and renin suppression ,  associated with varying degrees of hypertension and hypokalemia .
a hemorrhagic disorder due to a platelet anomaly which develops after birth .
an instance of rare thrombotic disorder due to a coagulation factors defect that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
a disorder that presents with spastic paraplegia and intellectual disability in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the ap4b1 gene .
a disease in which focal palmoplantar keratoderma is a major feature . .
a disease in which punctate palmoplantar keratoderma is a major feature . .
a disease in which cushing syndrome is a major feature .
an instance of rare male infertility due to hypothalamic - pituitary - gonadal axis disorder that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of rare female infertility due to hypothalamic - pituitary - gonadal axis disorder that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
an instance of rare venous malformation that is caused by a modification of the individual's genome .
a rare autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia  ( arca )  ,  characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia associated with frequent oculomotor apraxia ,  severe neuropathy and an elevated serum alpha - fetoprotein  ( afp )  level .
a hemorrhagic disorder due to a platelet anomaly which occurs from birth .
anpm
any ehlers - danlos syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col5a1 gene .
any ehlers - danlos syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the col5a2 gene .
any disease in which the causes of the disease is a perturbation of the renal tubule leading to its dysfunction .
ring chromosome 9 syndrome is an autosomal anomaly characterized by variable clinical features ,  most commonly including developmental delay ,  some degree of intellectual disability ,  facial dysmorphism ,  microcephaly ,  congenital heart anomalies ,  and variable genital ,  limb and skeletal anomalies .
ring chromosome 11 syndrome is an autosomal anomaly characterized by variable clinical features ,  including early growth retardation and short stature ,  microcephaly ,  developmental delay ,  some degree of intellectual disability ,  facial dysmorphism and caf - au - lait spots .
autosomal dominant form of disease with diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma as a major feature .
autosomal dominant form of disease with focal palmoplantar keratoderma as a major feature .
autosomal recessive form of disease with focal palmoplantar keratoderma as a major feature .
a defect of the bundle branches or fascicles in the electrical conduction system of the heart .
any dysequilibrium syndrome in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the vldlr gene .
a allergic disease involving a shrimp food product .
a allergic disease involving a acetylsalicylic acid .
any congenital anomaly of kidney and urinary tract in which the cause of the disease is a mutation in the tbx18 gene .
a progressive disorder involving connective tissue ,  bone ,  retina ,  ear ,  and brain ,  characterized by early - onset retinal degeneration ,  sensorineural hearing loss ,  microcephaly ,  intellectual disability ,  and skeletal dysplasia with scoliosis and short stature .
a rare abnormality of eosinophil granulocytes characterized by decreased or absent peroxidase activity and decreased volume of the granule matrix .
an instance of cutis laxa that is inherited .
an instance of cutis laxa that is inherited .
an instance of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis that is inherited .
an instance of thrombophilia that is inherited .
an instance of thrombocytopenia that is inherited .
an inherited susceptibility or predisposition to developing glioma .
an instance of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria that is inherited .
paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria  ( pnh )  is an acquired clonal hematopoietic stem cell disorder characterized by corpuscular hemolytic anemia ,  bone marrow failure and frequent thrombotic events .
an inherited susceptibility or predisposition to developing migraines with or without aura .
a subset of primary central nervous system vasculitis where disease is rapidly progressive after onset that is characterized by bilateral ,  multiple ,  large cerebral vessel lesions and multiple cns infarctions .
a rare genetic syndrome with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance .
a rare inborn error of metabolism characterized by persistent hypermethioninemia with increased levels of s - adenosylmethionine and s - adenosylhomocysteine which manifests with encephalopathy ,  severe global developmental delay ,  mild to severe liver dysfunction ,  hypotonia and facial dysmorphism  ( most significant is frontal bossing ,  macrocephaly ,  hypertelorism and depressed nasal bridge )  .
an x - linked intellectual deficiency in which not enough information is known ,  reported or published to indicate whether a gene causes non - syndromic or syndromic presentations .
a disorder of infants in which there is progressive obliteration or discontinuity of the extrahepatic biliary system ,  resulting in obstruction of bile flow .
bronciolitis caused by infection with respiratory syncytial virus .
a vitreoretinal dystrophy characterized by early onset of night blindness ,  reduced bilateral visual acuity ,  and typical fundus findings  ( progressive pigmentary degenerative changes ,  macular edema ,  retinoschisis )  .
the presence of multiple serrated polyps in the colon .
t acute lymphoblastic leukemia in which the blasts have unique immunophenotypic and genetic characteristics suggesting only limited early t - cell differentiation .
complex ii deficiency is a mitochondrial disease .
mutilating palmoplantar keratoderma  ( ppk )  with periorificial keratotic plaques  ( also known as olmsted syndrome )  is a hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma characterized by the combination of bilateral mutilating transgredient palmoplantar keratoderma and periorificial keratotic plaques .
potentially fatal shifts in fluids and electrolytes that may occur in malnourished patients receiving artificial refeeding  ( whether enterally or parenterally )  .
cattle  ( colloquially cows )  are the most common type of large domesticated ungulates .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a process in which at least one bodily component of an organsim participates .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to pressure ,  being broken ,  or pierced
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting repetition of placement of its parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
a quality of a single physical entity which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits a state of growth ,  differentiation ,  or development .
a hardness quality of being rigid and resistant to pressure .
a hardness quality of giving little resistance to pressure .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sudden onset ,  sharp rise ,  and short course .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being such that every part of the surface or the circumference is equidistant from the center .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively low .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a spatial pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being confined or restricted to a particular location .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's undergoing unprogrammed cell death .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval with two axes of symmetry ,  as produced by a conical section .
an optical quality which obtains by virtue of the ability of the bearer to absorb visible light .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being clear ;  not transmitting or reflecting light or radiant energy .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to admit the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a porosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of admitting the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a physical quality of a liquid inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to internal resistance to flow .
a viscosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having viscosity .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of force per unit area it exerts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably higher than its width .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a temperature which is relatively high .
a temperature which is relatively low .
a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of the temporal extent between the starting and ending point .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lack of distinct morphology .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's number of homologous sets of chromosomes in the nucleus or primary chromosome - containing compartment of the cell ,  each set essentially coding for all the biological traits of the organism .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing a single set of homologous chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing an integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  possibly excluding the sex - determining chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two copies  ( homologs )  of each chromosome ,  usually one from the mother and one from the father .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality that arises by virtue of whether the bearer's disposition to differentiate into one or more mature cell types .
a cellular potency that is the capacity to produce only one differentiated cell type .
a cellular potency that is the capacity to form multiple differentiated cell types of a specific lineage and lack self renewing capacity .
a cellular potency that is the capacity to form multiple differentiated cell types .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking distinct structure .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an oblique or slanted direction .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking complete growth ,  differentiation ,  or development .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability of being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity characterized by particles arranged such that their shape and volume are relatively stable .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity consisting of particles that have neither a defined volume nor defined shape .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a mass which is lower than normal or average .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being spread out or scattered about or divided up .
a pressure which is relatively low .
a pressure which is relatively high .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of osmoles of solute per liter of solution .
a osmolarity which is relatively low .
a osmolarity which is relatively high .
a distribution which is relatively high .
a distribution which is relatively low .
structure quality that is the presence of closed epithelium bounded capsules containing one or more liquid or solid organism substances .
an elevation which is relatively high .
an elevation which is relatively low .
a viscosity which relatively high .
a viscosity which relatively low .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing granules .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer's being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being covered by a liquid .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having slow progressive course of indefinite duration .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a consistently - sized round cross section .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being cylindrical ,  in which the height is less than the diameter .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being kept below its freezing point .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amount which is relatively low .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
a complete three dimensional shape in which for every line connecting pair of points on the object is within the object .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter's disposition the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells .
a structural quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing hollow areas .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward on both sides or surfaces .
a molecular quality that arises from the molecular attraction exerted between two atoms or compounds .
an affinity which is relatively high .
an affinity which is relatively low .
a morphology quality inhering in a neoplastic cell by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting breakdown of cell - cell interaction maintaining tissue architecture ,  proliferative dysregulation and bizarre modification to nucleus size and shape .
an affinity inhering in a tissue constituent by virtue of the bearer exhibiting a molecular interaction for basic dyes under specific ph conditions .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition not to progress ,  invade surrounding tissues or metastasize .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to progress ,  invade surrounding tissues or metastasize .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to spread and invade distant tissues .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's penetrating or permeating another substance or area .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing the form of a thin plate sheet or layer .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to invade surrounding tissues .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition not to invade surrounding tissues .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a shape that inheres in a 3 dimensional entity .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a shape constituting a transition between a rectangle and a circle ;  a closed curve ,  of which the circle and ellipse are special cases ,  whose parametric equation is x = a .cos2 / rt ,  y = b .cos2 / rt
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
the propensity of a material to undergo combustion .
an increase in combustibility .
an decrease in combustibility .
an increase in porosity .
an decrease in porosity .
a material entity that consists of two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids .
a collection of organisms ,  all of the same species ,  that live in the same place .
a multi - species collection of organisms of at least two different species ,  living in a particular area .
a material entity that has as parts two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids of the same species and no members of any other species .
a collection of organisms that consists of two or more organisms from at least two species .
a material entity that is one or more organisms ,  viruses or viroids .
a plant structure  ( po:0005679 )  which is a whole organism .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that develops from a gynoecium  ( po:0009062 )  ,  or a single carpel  ( po:0009030 )  ,  and at maturity may have as parts one or more seeds  ( po:0009010 )  .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that consists predominantly of similarly specialized plant cells  ( po:0009002 )  of one or more types .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that is a functional unit ,  is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  and includes portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types that derive from a common developmental path .
a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  that participates in the plant embryo stage  ( po:0007631 )  .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that develops from a plant ovule  ( po:0020003 )  and has as parts a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  enclosed in a seed coat  ( po:0009088 )  .
an anatomical structure that is or was part of a plant ,  or was derived from a part of a plant .
a collective phyllome structure  ( po:0025023 )  composed all of the carpels  ( po:0009030 )  in a flower  ( po:0009046 )  .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  that is the outer layer  ( wall )  of a fruit  ( po:0009001 )  ,  and develops from a plant ovary  ( po:0009072 )  or a carpel  ( po:0009030 )  wall .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  that is the outer layer of a pericarp  ( po:0009084 )  .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  that is the innermost differentiated layer of a pericarp  ( po:0009084 )  .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  that is the middle layer of a pericarp  ( po:0009084 )  .
a plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  that has as parts a nucellus  ( po:0020020 )  in which a female gametophyte  ( po:0025279 )  is located ,  one or two integuments  ( po:0020021 )  ,  and a funicle  ( po:0020006 )  .
a collective plant structure  ( po:0025497 )  that is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  and is composed of two or more adjacent plant organs  ( po:0009008 )  and the associated portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that consists of two or more phyllomes  ( po:0006001 )  originating from the same node or from one or more adjacent nodes with compressed shoot internodes  ( po:0005005 )  .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that is part of an plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  .
an anatomical entity that is or was part of a plant .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that has as parts two or more portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single structural unit demarcated by primarily bona - fide boundaries from other structural units of different types .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  and includes two or more adjacent plant organs  ( po:0009008 )  or adjacent cardinal organ parts  ( po:0025001 )  ,  along with any associated portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  .
a fruit  ( po:0009001 )  which at maturity comprises a fleshy endocarp  ( po:0009086 )  ,  fleshy mesocarp  ( po:0009087 )  ,  and fleshy exocarp  ( po:0009085 )  .
a berry fruit  ( po:0030108 )  which develops from a superior gynoecium  ( po:0009062 )  and at maturity comprises a thickened exocarp  ( po:0009085 )  ,  thickened mesocarp  ( po:0009087 )  ,  and endocarp  ( po:0009086 )  ,  and has as parts juice sacs  ( po:0006013 )  on a carpel adaxial epidermis  ( po:0025618 )  .
a process occurring within or in the vicinity of an organism that exerts some causal influence on the organism via the interaction between an exposure stimulus and an exposure receptor .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
a sequence_feature with an extent greater than zero .
a gene which ,  when transcribed ,  can be translated into a protein .
a gene which can be transcribed ,  but will not be translated into a protein .
any extent of continuous biological sequence .
the point at which one or more contiguous nucleotides were excised .
a transcript that in its initial state requires modification to be functional .
a primary transcript encoding a ribosomal rna .
a transcript which has undergone the necessary modifications ,  if any ,  for its function .
a deviation in chromosome structure or number .
a kind of kind of sequence alteration where the copies of a region present varies across a population .
rna that comprises part of a ribosome ,  and that can provide both structural scaffolding and catalytic activity .
a feature where there has been exchange of genetic material in the event of mitosis or meiosis
a location where recombination or occurs during mitosis or meiosis .
a location where a gene is rearranged due to recombination during mitosis or meiosis .
a feature where recombination has occurred for the purpose of generating a diversity in the immune system .
a primary transcript encoding a large ribosomal subunit rna .
a region specifically recognised by a recombinase where recombination can occur during mitosis or meiosis .
an attribute describes a quality of sequence .
an attribute describing a gene .
germline genomic dna with the sequence for a v ,  d ,  c ,  or j portion of an immunoglobulin / t - cell receptor .
a primary transcript that is never translated into a protein .
a region that can be transcribed into a microrna  ( mirna )  .
a region that can be transcribed into a small nucleolar rna  ( snorna )  .
ribosomal rna transcript that structures the large subunit of the ribosome .
an rna transcript that does not encode for a protein rather the rna molecule is the gene product .
a region that can be transcribed into a small temporal rna  ( strna )  .
a region that can be transcribed into a  transfer rna  ( trna )  .
a feature where a segment of dna has been rearranged from what it was in the parent cell .
an rna synthesized on a dna or rna template by an rna polymerase .
a region  ( or regions )  that includes all of the sequence elements necessary to encode a functional transcript .
an attribute describing a located_sequence_feature .
a region of a gene .
a region specifically recognised by a recombinase ,  which inserts or removes another region marked by a distinct cognate integration / excision site .
a variation that increases or decreases the copy number of a given region .
a genome is the sum of genetic material within a cell or virion .
a sequence_alteration is a sequence_feature whose extent is the deviation from another sequence .
a gene that codes for an rna that can be translated into a protein .
a region containing at least one unique origin of replication and a unique termination site .
a collection of discontinuous sequences .
a gene that encodes a non - coding rna .
a small noncoding rna of approximately 22 nucleotides in length which may be involved in regulation of gene expression .
a small noncoding rna that guides chemical modification of other rnas .
a gene that encodes a small nuclear rna .
a noncoding rna that binds to a specific amino acid to allow that amino acid to be used by the ribosome during translation of rna .
a region defined by its disposition to be involved in a biological process .
snvs are single nucleotide positions in genomic dna at which different sequence alternatives exist .
a biological_region characterized as a single heritable trait in a phenotype screen .
a collection of sequences  ( often chromosomes )  of an individual .
a collection of one or more sequences of an individual .
an attribute of alteration of one or more chromosomes .
an attribute of a change in the structure or number of a chromosomes .
a change in chromosomes that occurs between two separate chromosomes .
when a genome contains an abnormal amount of chromosomes .
a gene that encodes for ribosomal rna .
a measurable sequence feature that varies within a population .
a non - coding rna over 200nucleotides in length .
a position or feature where two sequences have been compared .
the configuration of the  ig and tr variable  ( v )  ,  diversity  ( d )  and joining  ( j )  germline genes before dna rearrangements   ( with or without constant  ( c )  genes in undefined configuration .
a germline immunoglobulin  gene .
transcription units or transcribed coding sequences .
a collection of related genes .
a sequence alteration where the length of the change in the variant is the same as that of the reference .
a single nucleotide change which has occurred at the same position of a corresponding nucleotide in a reference sequence .
a chromosomal structure variation within a single chromosome .
an incomplete chromosome .
an extra chromosome .
an alteration of the genome that leads to a change in the structure or number of one or more chromosomes .
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
lower ,  narrow portion of the uterus where it joins with the top end of the vagina .
orifice of the olfactory system .
the olfactory organ of vertebrates ,  consisting of nares ,  olfactory epithelia and the structures and skeletal framework of the nasal cavity .
the clusters of hormone - producing cells that are scattered throughout the pancreas
the pituitary gland is an endocrine gland that secretes hormones that regulate many other glands  [ go ]  .
a layer of dense irregular connective tissue that lines organs and supports the mucosa ,  as well as joins the mucosa to the bulk of underlying smooth muscle .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
the parasympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system .
part of peripheral nervous system that includes the somatic parts of the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors .
the sympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system  ( the other being the parasympathetic nervous system )  .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the endocrine system and is made up of islet cells ,  which produce insulin ,  glucagon and somatostatin .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the exocrine system and which produces and store zymogens of digestive enzymes ,  such as chymotrypsinogen and trypsinogen in the acinar cells  [ go ]  .
an organ of sight that includes the camera - type eyeball and supporting structures such as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the conjunctiva ,  the eyelid .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
anatomical projection that protrudes from the skin .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
major subdivision of an organism that protrudes from the body [ dos ,  caro ]  .
any of the rounded masses of lymphoid tissue that are surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue ,  are distributed along the lymphatic vessels ,  and contain numerous lymphocytes which filter the flow of lymph .
a thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the mucosa [ wp ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory airway .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
the fluid surrounding the ovum and granulosa cells in the ovarian follicle .
region of ovarian follicle filled with follicular fluid .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer  ( mesothelium )  and a connective tissue layer .
dense regular connective tissue that connects muscle to bone [ vsao ]  .
a biological tissue mass ,  most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies .
an eye with one concave chamber .
an oval area in the retina ,  usually located temporal to the posterior pole of the eye and slightly below the level of the optic disk .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
muscular duct that propels urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder ,  or related organs .
the fibromuscular tubular canal through which urine is discharged from the bladder to the exterior via the external urinary meatus ;  in males ,  the urethra is joined by the ejaculatory ducts and serves as a passageway for semen during ejaculation ,  as well as a canal for urine during voiding ;  in females ,  the urethra is shorter and emerges above the vaginal opening
a tubular structure that transports secreted or excreted substances .
a subdivision of the digestive tract that connects the small intestine to the cloaca or anus .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a part of an organ that constitutes a distinct modular sub - unit .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
anatomical structure that is part of the respiratory system .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
end of the life of an organism .
an section of a respiratory tract .
any part or collection of parts of the central or peripheral nervous system .
a capillary tuft which forms a close network with the visceral epithelium  ( podocytes )  and the mesangium to form the filtration barrier and is surrounded by bowman's capsule in nephrons of the vertebrate kidney [ go ]  .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements and articular elements that are part of an individual subdivision of the organism .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
the organs associated with producing offspring in the gender that produces spermatozoa .
the second stage of the kidney .
in mammals ,  the metanephros is the excretory organ of the fetus ,  which develops into the mature kidney and is formed from the rear portion of the nephrogenic cord .
a mesonephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the mesonephros [ go ]  .
an epithelial swelling on the wolffian duct that elongates to invade the adjacent metanephric mesenchyme [ mp ] 
a spherical embryonic mass of blastomeres formed before the blastula and resulting from cleavage of the fertilized ovum .
a glycoprotein membrane surrounding the plasma membrane of an oocyte .
a mass of cells that develop into the body of the embryo and some extraembryonic tissues
the mesectodermal cell layer arising from the trophectoderm that erodes the uterine mucosa and contributes to the formation of the placenta
a flattened ,  almost circular bilaminar plate of cells formed when the inner cell mass  ( aka embryoblast )  forms two epithelial layers ,  each of a distinct lineage ,  separated by an extracellular basement membrane: the external  ( dorsal )  layer is called the epiblast and the internal  ( ventral )  layer is called the hypoblast  ( aka primitive endoderm )  ;  together ,  they compose the bilaminar embryonic disc .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
a depression or fissure in the surface of an organ .
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
portion of neural crest that develops from the dorsal neural tube .
a lung lobe is one of the rounded projections that compose the lung [ go ]  .
the lung vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs [ go ]  .
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
the stage of being a sexually mature adult animal .
the connective tissue located between the respiratory  ( airway and alveolar )  epithelium ,  the capillary endothelium and pleural mesothelium ;  it contains basement membrane composed of collagen ,  elastin ,  proteoglycans ,  and fibronectin
the epithelial layer of the lung .
a tube in the respiratory system .
structure derived from foregut that becomes a lung [ go ]  .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of single layer of cells connected to each other by cell junctions .
a layer of thin ,  concentrically arranged cells with interspersed collagen that lies within the epineurium .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
a loose connective tissue sheath surrounding each peripheral nerve .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the cns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections ,  and including nearby cells that share the same cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
nucleus that receives projections from or contains neurons that send projections through one of the cranial nerves
the group of motor neurons residing in the pons that innervate the muscles of facial expression
the terminal part of the large intestine ,  continuous proximally with the rectum and distally terminates with the anus .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism )  [ fma , modified ]  .
common chamber into which the intestines and excretory system opens .
endoderm - lined chamber that develops as pouch - like dilation of the caudal end of the hindgut and receives the allantois ventrally and two mesonephric ducts laterally ;  caudally it ends blindly at the cloacal membrane formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm [ mp ]  .
the ventral part of the cloaca remaining after septation of the rectum ,  which further develops into part of the bladder ,  part of the prostatic part of the male urethra and the urethra and vestibule in females
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
a section dividing a colon along a proximal - distal axis .
the pair of anatomical structures comprised of a left lung and right lung .
organ that functions in gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
amniotic fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of watery liquid surrounding and cushioning a growing fetus within the amnion .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
the narrow part of the shaft of the radius just below the head .
a ridge on the cerebral cortex .
dorsal part  ( roof region )  of the telencephalon [ go ]  .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements or supporting an organ .
a closed space between the embryo and the amnion which contains the amniotic fluid and is formed by the fusion of the parts of the anterior and posterior amniotic folds .
a layer of membrane around a tendon .
the thin innermost layer of the extraembryonic membranes that contains the amniotic fluid ;  the membrane forms a closed sac in which the embryo and later ,  the fetus ,  is suspended and protected
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
the external portion of an animal body derived from ectoderm and mesoderm layers that encloses the body cavity .
the upper ventral region of the torso of an organism .
cartilage pertaining to the tibia .
a mucosa that is part of a cecum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the space between the arachnoid and pia mater .
a substance produced by the cervix and endocervical glands [ bto ]  .
mucosa that is part of a colon .
a mucosa that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an embryo that is at the late embryonic stage ;  this stage covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
the branched tubular glands found in the mucosa of the fundus and body of the stomach which contain parietal cells that secrete hydrochloric acid and zymogenic cells that produce pepsin .
pancreatic juice is slightly alkaline and contains numerous enzymes and inactive enzyme precursors including alpha - amylase ,  chymotrypsinogen ,  lipase ,  procarboxypeptidase ,  proelastase ,  prophospholipase a2 ,  ribonuclease ,  and trypsinogen .
the wall of the digestive tract .
a mucosa that is part of a ileum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
bone marrow in which the fat cells predominate in the meshes of the reticular network .
a gland that is part of the intestinal mucosa .
in anatomy ,  the throat is the anterior part of the neck ,  in front of the vertebral column .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the orbit and its contents ,  the nasal cavity and the skin of the nose and forehead .
a set of midline structures surrounding the brainstem of the mammalian brain ,  originally described anatomically ,  e .g . ,  hippocampal formation ,  amygdala ,  hypothalamus ,  cingulate cortex .
functional part of an organ in the body .
a mucosa that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mammalian blastocyst is a hollow ball of cells containing two cell types ,  the inner cell mass and the trophectoderm [ go ]  .
the inner portion of the kidney consisting of the renal pyramids
an epithelial tissue layer that lines much of the urinary tract ,  including the renal pelvis ,  the ureters ,  the bladder ,  and parts of the urethra .
a skeletal muscle whose contraction bends a joint .
the motor and sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the auricle ,  the external acoustic meatus ,  tympanic membrane ,  temporal region ,  the cheek ,  the skin overlying the mandible ,  the anterior portion of the tongue ,  the floor of the mouth ,  lower teeth and gingiva and transmits motor information from the muscles of mastication ,  the mylohyoid muscle and digastric muscle and the muscles tensor tympani and tensor veli palatini .
the part of the hindlimb between pelvis and the knee ,  corresponding to the femur .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the palate ,  upper teeth and gingiva ,  the skin between the palpebral fissure and the mouth ,  and from the nasal cavity and maxillary sinuses .
the muscular portion of the tongue .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory airway .
apocrine sweat glands are sweat glands composed of a coiled secretory portion located at the junction of the dermis and subcutaneous fat ,  from which a straight portion inserts and secretes into the infundibular portion of the hair follicle .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
a part of the pharynx that consists of a flap of elastic cartilage tissue plus a mucous membrane covering ,  attached to the entrance of the larynx .
tissue that surrounds the lens nucleus
the core of the crystalline lens ,  surrounded by the cortex .
pia mater or arachnoid mater .
the group of nerve cell bodies that conveys auditory sensation from the organ of corti to the hindbrain and resides on the cochlear part of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( eighth cranial nerve )  [ mp ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any portion of cartilage tissue that is part of the sternum
a mucosa that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a jejunum .
the nasal vestibule is the most anterior part of the nasal cavity .
the outer covering of the calvaria .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are serous secreting cells .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the cerebral cortex responsible for processing visual information .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are mucus secreting cells .
an anatomical wall that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a merocrine ,  unbranched ,  unbranched ,  coiled ,  tubular gland sweat gland .
the prostate epithelium .
the arachnoid trabeculae are delicate strands of connective tissue that loosely connect the two innermost layers of the meninges  -  -  the arachnoid mater and the pia mater .
a small ,  often microscopic ,  tissue element in the form of a small beam ,  strut or rod ,  generally having a mechanical function ,  and usually but not necessarily composed of dense collagenous tissue .
a vein that drains the left pampiniform plexus and empties into the left renal vein .
a vein that drains the right pampiniform plexus and empties into the inferior vena cava .
the layer located below the cerebral cortex that includes the forebrain ,  midbrain and hindbrain .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
any of several small branches of the internal carotid artery that supply the trigeminal ganglion and the walls of the cavernous and petrosal sinuses .
the region of the opening of the uterine cervix into the uterine cavity .
an anatomical wall that is part of a uterus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the paired glands located slightly posterior and to the left and right of the opening of the vagina in the superficial perineal pouch in females ;  they secrete mucus to lubricate the vagina and are homologous to bulbourethral  ( cowper's )  glands in males
small mucous glands opening upon the vestibular mucous membrane between the urethral and the vaginal orifice .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
a gonad of a male animal .
the organs and associated structures associated with bearing offspring in a female animal .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
unilaminar epithelium which consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
mucus is a bodily fluid consisting of a slippery secretion of the lining of the mucous membranes in the body .
interstitial fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of a solution which bathes and surrounds the cells of multicellular animals .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
the subdivision of the vertebrate body between the thorax and pelvis .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
motor nerve of the pharynx ,  arises from the upper part of the ganglion nodosum ,  and consists principally of filaments from the cranial portion of the accessory nerve .
anterior part of the embryonic digestive tract that develops into a mouth .
inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into an ectodermal terminal part of the digestive tract .
cranial nerve fiber tract which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons running posterior medially towards the optic chiasm ,  at which some of the axons cross the midline and after which the structure is termed the optic tract .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
a membranous fold of the heart that prevents reflux of fluid
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce endocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the thin layer of gray matter on the surface of the cerebral hemisphere that develops from the telencephalon .
any thin layer or plate .
middle part of an organ ,  surrounded by the cortex .
a decussation of the diencephalon where the fibers of the optic nerve cross
the cervical nerves are the spinal nerves from the cervical vertebrae .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
the retina is the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an organ that detects light .
an organism subdivision that extends from the head to the pectoral girdle ,  encompassing the cervical vertebral column .
a midventral endochondral skeletal element which represents the origin site of the pectoral muscles [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
paired endochondral long bone that extends between the pectoral girdle and the skeletal parts of the forelimb .
the invaginated serous membrane that surrounds the lungs  ( the visceral portion )  and lines the walls of the pleural cavity  ( parietal portion )  .
the portion of the hindlimb that contains both the stylopod and zeugopod .
the major preaxial endochondral bone in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
endochondral longbone connecting the pelvic girdle with posterior zeugopodium skeleton .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
a metapodium region that is part of a pes .
vein that drains the axilla
the part of the central nervous system lying between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain ,  ventral to the cerebellum .
a intromittent organ in certain biologically male organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
the gonad of a female organism which contains germ cells
a tube or collection of tubes in an animal from the ovaries to the outside of the body .
the female muscular organ of gestation in which the developing embryo or fetus is nourished until birth
a fibromuscular tubular tract leading from the uterus to the exterior of the body in female placental mammals and marsupials ,  or to the cloaca in female birds ,  monotremes ,  and some reptiles [ wp ]  .
external genital organs of the female mammal [ wp ]  .
either of a pair of glandular pouches that lie one on either side of the male reproductive tract posterolateral to the urinary bladder and in the human male secrete a sugar -  and protein - containing fluid into the ejaculatory duct .
the ejaculatory ducts  ( ductus ejaculatorii )  are paired structures in male anatomy ,  about 2 cm in length .
a secretory duct that transports sperm from the testis .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
an airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the renal system in an anatomical system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products . .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
the body of the ulna at its upper part is prismatic in form ,  and curved so as to be convex behind and lateralward ;  its central part is straight ;  its lower part is rounded ,  smooth ,  and bent a little lateralward .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
a group of axons linking two or more neuropils and having a common origin ,  termination [ fbbt ]  .
a slender neuron projection bundle [ fbbt ]  ;  a bundle of anatomical fibers ,  as of muscle or nerve  ( american heritage dictionary 4th ed )  .
axon tract that crosses the midline of the central nervous system [ nif ,  modified ]  .
an enclosed ,  cable - like bundle of axons in the peripheral nervous system originating in a nerve root in the central nervous system  ( or a condensed nervous structure )  connecting with peripheral structures .
a nerve that transmits from sensory receptors on the surface of the body to the central nervous system .
a diaphysis that is part of a radius bone [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
the sensory system for the sense of taste .
a filament ,  mostly protein ,  that grows from follicles found in the dermis [ wp ]  .
a sac - like expansion of the ventral wall of the intestine ,  narrowed into a yolk stalk near the body [ hyman's ]  .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
a portion of the respiratory and digestive tracts ;  its distal limit is the superior part of the esophagus and it connects the nasal and oral cavities with the esophagus and larynx ;  it contains the valleculae and the pyriform recesses ;  its upper limits are the nasal cavity and cranial base .
tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach .
saliva - secreting exocrine glands of the oral cavity [ go ] 
middle subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
the caudalmost subdivision of a digestive tract .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
in the developing vertebrate ,  the neural tube is the embryo's precursor to the central nervous system ,  which comprises the brain and spinal cord .
bottom part of the pharynx that connects to the esophagus .
the terminal portion of the intestinal tube ,  terminating with the anus
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a duct joining the pancreas to the common bile duct to supply pancreatic juices which aid in digestion provided by the exocrine pancreas .
a pad of fibrocartilage between the articular surfaces of two successive vertebral centra which has nucleus pulposus at its core .
a zone of skin that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to to the throat ,  neck glands ,  tongue ,  face ,  mouth ,  ear ,  scalp and dura mater of the meninges [ mp ] 
it ascends beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius ,  distributing branches to it ,  and to the neighboring muscles and lymph glands in the neck ,  and anastomosing with the superficial branch of the descending branch of the occipital artery .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
a point along the course of the gastrointestinal tract where the small intestine  ( ileum )  ends as it opens into the cecal portion of the large intestine ;  occurs usually within the iliac fossa ,  demarcated internally as the ileocecal orifice
a potential space between the visceral and parietal layers of the pericardium .
ossified form of a vertebral centrum ,  a skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
the transverse or costal processes of a vertebra ,  two in number ,  project one at either side from the point where the lamina joins the pedicle ,  between the superior and inferior articular processes .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
an epicardial layer that lines a cardiac ventricle
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
a zone of skin that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
transudate contained in the pleural cavity .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
secretion produced by a sweat gland .
joint fluid is a transudate of plasma that is actively secreted by synovial cells .
skeletal element within the mouth  ( or in some species ,  upper part of the digestive tract )  that is composed of dentine and is used in procuring or masticating food .
a vertebra bone that is part of the sacral region of the vertebral column .
any vertebral bone that is part of the caudal region of the vertebral column  ( tail or coccyx )  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a thin musculomebranous barrier that separates the abdominal and thoracic cavities .
traditional gross anatomy divided the liver into four lobes based on surface features .
the right lobe is much larger than the left ;  the proportion between them being as six to one .
the left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right .
a lobe of tissue that is part of a thyroid gland .
a lobe of thyroid gland that is in the right side of a thyroid gland .
a lobe of thyroid gland that is in the left side of a thyroid gland .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all the vertebra and associated skeletal elements and joints in the body [ modified from vsao ]  .
a foramen within a vertebral element through which the spinal cord runs .
the parathyroid gland is an endocrine gland for secretion of parathyroid hormone ,  usually found as a pair ,  embedded in the connective tissue capsule on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland .
muscle tissue composed of cardiac muscle cells ,  forming the muscles of the heart [ zfa , modified ]  .
muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
simple squamous epithelium of mesodermal origin which lines serous membranes .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
in anatomy ,  the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  is a blood vessel that drains blood from the small intestine .
either of the pair of major vessels which arise from the renal hilus and return blood from the kidneys ,  suprarenal gland and the ureter to the inferior vena cava .
a renal vein that drains the right kidney
a renal vein that drains the left kidney
vein that carries blood away from the liver [ zfa ]  .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from a single male gonad .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from its corresponding ovary to inferior vena cava or one of its tributaries .
a vein that drains the adrenal gland .
a nerve of the arm that originates from the brachial plexus and is formed from parts of the medial and lateral cords of the brachial plexus ,  and continues down the arm to enter the forearm with the brachial artery .
the tubular structure that conducts gall bladder contents from the gall bladder to the common bile duct
a pouch in the digestive tract that connects the ileum with the ascending colon of the large intestine .
a blind - ended tube connected to the cecum ,  from which it develops embryologically [ wp ]  .
last portion of the large intestine before it becomes the rectum .
section of colon which is distal to the cecum and proximal to the transversecolon .
the proximal - distal subdivision of colon that runs transversely across the upper part of the abdomen ,  from the right to the left colic flexure .
the portion of the colon between the left colic flexure and the sigmoid colon at the pelvic brim ;  the portion of the descending colon lying in the left iliac fossa is sometimes called the iliac colon .
the part of the large intestine that is closest to the rectum and anus .
the fundus is the portion of the stomach that lies above the cardiac notch ,  and contains the fundic glands [ go ,  kardong ]  .
the body of stomach is the part of the stomach that lies between the fundus above and the pyloric antrum below ;  its boundaries are poorly defined [ go ]  .
the part of the stomach attached to the esophagus .
the greater curvature of the stomach is directed mainly forward ,  and is four or five times as long as the lesser curvature .
the area at the bottom of the stomach on the caudal side of the pyloric canal that contains gastrin - producing g cells ,  which stimulate acid production ,  and the luminal ph - sensitive population of somatostatin - producing d cells
the stomach tissue region surrounding and controlling the distal outlet of the stomach ,  which opens into the duodenum
the layered structure that makes up the stomach ,  typiclly consists of a serous coat ,  a muscular coat ,  a mucous membrane ,  and other tissue layers in between
an anatomical wall that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the peritoneum responsible for connecting the jejunum and ileum  ( parts of the small intestine )  to the back wall of the abdomen .
the triangular region on the periphery of the liver lobules that contain a bile duct and a terminal branch of the hepatic artery and portal vein ,  and may also include a lymphatic vessel .
the functional unit of the liver ,  consisting of a mass of hepatocytes from adjacent liver lobules aligned around the hepatic arterioles and portal venules just as they anastomose into sinusoids .
a complex network of conduits that begins with the canals of hering  ( intralobar bile duct )  and progressively merges into a system of interlobular ,  septal ,  and major ducts which then coalesce to form the extrahepatic bile ducts ,  which finally deliver bile to the intestine ,  and in some species to the gallbladder .
the part of the biliary tree formed by the union of the cystic duct and the common hepatic duct
predominantly extrahepatic bile duct which is formed by the junction of the right and left hepatic ducts ,  which are predominantly intrahepatic ,  and ,  in turn ,  joins the cystic duct to form the common bile duct [ gaid ]  .
the duct that drains bile from the right half of the liver and joins the left hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the duct that drains bile from the left half of the liver and joins the right hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the inner layer of peritoneum that is wrapped around organs located inside the intraperitoneal space .
anatomical cavity bounded by visceral and parietal peritoneum
mesenteric artery that supplies the whole length of the small intestine except the superior part of the duodenum .
mesenteric artery that supplies the large intestine from the left colic  ( or splenic )  flexure to the upper part of the rectum ,  which includes the descending colon ,  the sigmoid colon ,  and part of the rectum .
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the kidneys .
renal artery that supplies the right kidney
renal artery that supplies the left kidney
one of a pair of arteries that is a branch of the abdominal aorta that supplies blood to a male gonad .
a testicular artery that supplies a right testicle .
a testicular artery that supplies a left testicle .
an artery that supplies an ovary .
the common iliac arteries are two large arteries ,  about 4cm long in adults but more than a centimetre in diameter ,  that originate from the aortic bifurcation .
an artery that supplies the liver .
an artery that supplies the spleen .
the middle colic artery is a branch of the superior mesenteric artery that mostly supplies the transverse colon .
the ileocolic artery is the lowest branch arising from the concavity of the superior mesenteric artery .
the mucosal layer that lines the stomach .
the fibrous connective tissue layer beneath the stomach mucosa
the outermost layer of the stomach wall ,  consisting of layers of connective tissue continuous with the peritoneum
a strong ring of smooth muscle at the end of the pyloric canal which lets food pass from the stomach to the duodenum .
a mucosa that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
submucosal tissue in the small intestines .
a serous membrane that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a compound tubular submucosal gland found in that portion of the duodenum which is above the hepatopancreatic sphincter  ( sphincter of oddi )  .
the tiny hair - like projections that protrude from the inside of the small intestine that contain blood vessels that capture digested nutrients that are absorbed through the intestinal wall ;  the villi increase the absorptive surface area of the small intestine by approximately 30 - fold
a blood vessel that drains blood from the large intestine that usually terminates when reaching the splenic vein ,  which goes on to form the portal vein with the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  .
a tributary of the superior mesenteric vein that drains the jejunum .
the veins that drain blood from the ileum into the superior mesenteric vein .
the middle colic vein drains the transverse colon .
the ileocolic vein is a vein which drains the ileum ,  colon ,  and cecum .
an ureter that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ureter that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a funnel shaped proximal portion of the ureter that is formed by convergence of the major calices  [ mp ]  .
outer cortical portion of the kidney ,  between the renal capsule and the renal medulla .
tip of renal pyramid projecting into a minor calyx .
the structure containing the glomerular capsule and the glomerulus that serves as the initial blood - filtering component of a nephron
a cup - like sac at the expanded beginning of a tubular component of a nephron that contains the glomerulus
an epithelial tube that is part of the nephron ,  the functional part of the kidney .
the collecting duct is a portion of the nephron through which water flows ,  moving passively down its concentration gradient
an adrenal gland that is in the right side of the abdomen
an adrenal gland that is in the left side of the abdomen
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that produces and secretes steroid hormones such as corticosterone ,  estrone and aldosterone
the inner portion of the adrenal gland that consists mainly of chromaffin cells which produce ,  store and secrete neurotransmitters such as epinephrine and norepinephrine
lamina propria that is part_of the small intestine .
mucosal layer that lines the intestine .
a serous membrane that is part of a wall of intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
orifice at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth .
the canals that carry bile in the liver between the intralobular ducts and the biliary ductules ;  interlobular bile ducts are part of the interlobular portal triad .
a ligament that attaches the liver to the anterior body wall .
the splenic hilum is a location on the surface of the spleen .
the parenchymatous tissue network of the spleen that consists of loose plates or cords  ( sinuses )  infiltrated with red blood cells where most of the blood filtration occurs and degenerate erythrocytes are removed from the circulation
the zone between the red and white pulp of the spleen containing numerous macrophages and lymphocytes ,  and a rich plexus of sinusoids supplied by white pulp arterioles carrying blood - borne antigens
an adventitia that is part of a ureter .
a lamina propria that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the luminal epithelium of the tube that conducts the urine from the renal pelvis to the bladder [ mp ] 
distensible musculomembranous organ situated in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity in which urine collects before excretion [ mp ]  .
an anatomical wall that lines the insider of a urinary bladder .
the smooth triangular region of the wall of the urinary bladder formed by the two ureteral orifices and the internal urethral orifice ;  it is an area in which the muscle fibers are closely adherent to the mucosa
the constricted portion of the urinary bladder ,  formed by the meeting of its inferolateral surfaces proximal to the opening of the urethra [ mp ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the urinary bladder
a serous membrane that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the secretory units of the exocrine pancreas ,  where fluid containing digestive enzymes is produced ;  consists of a group of secretory cells surrounding a luminal space that connects to the pancreatic duct .
an endoderm derived structure that produces precursors of digestive enzymes and blood glucose regulating enzymes [ go ]  .
a trabecula that is part of a spleen .
the femoral nerve ,  the largest branch of the lumbar plexus ,  arises from the ventral divisions of the second ,  third ,  and fourth lumbar nerves .
transudate contained in the peritoneal cavity .
a ring of bone formed by the sacrum and the first few coccygeal vertebrae as the roof ,  the pubis and ischia as the floor and the ilia and the acetabular part of the ischia as the walls .
the organism subdivision that includes the pelvic girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
a fused bone consisting of the ilium ,  ischium and and pubis .
paired endochondral bone that is the dorsal - most of the pelvic bones ,  offering attachment areas for gluteal muscles on its main surface  [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
endochondral bone that is paired ,  forming the posterior part of the pelvis ,  articulating with the pubis and ilium .
a paired endochondral bone making up the anteroventral region of the tripartite pelvic girdle forming part of the ventral edge of the acetabulum .
the epithelial layer of the stomach  .
epithelial layer that lines the intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a multi - organ - part structure that consists of three vessels of the portal lobule including the bile duct ,  a terminal branch of the hepatic artery and portal vein ,  and may also include a lymphatic vessel
the functional units of the liver including the lobules .
wide thin - walled blood vessels in the liver .
the tubules located between the bile canaliculi and interlobular bile ducts near the outer edge of a classic liver lobule
the basic functional unit of the kidney .
the proximal convoluted tubule is the most proximal portion of the proximal tubule and extends from the glomerular capsule to the proximal straight tubule .
the section of the renal tubule in the kidney medulla with a hairpin bend ;  consists of a descending limb and an ascending limb ,  and is situated between the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule ;  it functions to reabsorb water and ions from the urine
the portion of the renal tubule that constitutes the proximal part of the loop of henle ,  has low permeability to ions and urea ,  and is highly permeable to water ;  it consists of an initial short thick segment lined by low simple cuboidal epithelium and a long thin segment lined by simple squamous epithelium ;  however ,  this distinction is not as important physiologically as in the ascending limb ,  so often the two are treated as one structure
the proximal straight tubule is the part of the descending limb that extends from the proximal convoluted tubule to the descending thin tubule .
the first segment of the nephron lying just downstream from the loop of henle ,  immediately after the macula densa .
the renal outer medulla is the region of the kidney that lies between the renal cortex and the renal inner medulla [ go ]  .
innermost region of the mammalian kidney .
the glandular mucous membrane lining of the uterine cavity that is hormonally responsive during the estrous / menstrual cycle and during pregnancy
the smooth muscle coat of the uterus ,  which forms the main mass of the organ and surrounds and supports the endometrium
outer serosa layer of the uterus .
the conic expansion of the corpus spongiosum that forms the head of the penis
the external sac of skin that encloses the testes .
the elongated structure connected to the posterior surface of the testis that transports ,  stores ,  and matures spermatozoa between testis and vas deferens
a fallopian tube that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a fallopian tube that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer of simple cuboidal cells covering surface of ovary [ wp ]  .
a spherical aggregation of cells in the ovary that contains a single oocyte [ wp , modified ]  .
a capsule that surrounds a female gonad .
the external iliac artery is a large artery in the pelvic region that carries blood to the lower limb .
the internal iliac artery  ( formerly known as the hypogastric artery )  is the main artery of the pelvis .
the umbilical artery is a paired artery  ( with one for each half of the body )  that is found in the abdominal and pelvic regions .
an artery that supplies blood to the lower urinary bladder .
an artery that supplies blood to the upper urinary bladder .
a vein that begins near the upper part of the greater sciatic foramen ,  passes upward behind and slightly medial to the hypogastric artery and ,  at the brim of the pelvis ,  joins with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein .
one the veins that drains the vaginal venous plexus ,  into the hypogastric veins .
a large nerve that supplies nearly the whole of the skin of the leg ,  the muscles of the back of the thigh ,  and those of the leg and foot .
the tibial nerve is a branch of the sciatic nerve .
a nerve arising at the terminal division of the sciatic nerve at the popliteal fossa and extending to the neck of the fibula ,  ultimately innervating the peroneus muscle [ mp ]  .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the pelvis .
the levator ani is a broad ,  thin muscle ,  situated on the side of the pelvis .
a portion of a prostate that forms a lobe .
the pampiniform plexus is a network of many small veins found in the male spermatic cord .
a zone of skin that is part of a penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis and protects the urinary meatus when the penis is not erect .
a urethra that is part of a male reproductive system .
a urethra that is part of a female reproductive system .
the widest and most dilatable part of the male urethra canal which runs almost vertically through the prostate from its base to its apex ,  lying nearer its anterior than its posterior surface ;  this portion of the urethral canal is spindle - shaped ,  being wider in the middle than at either extremity ,  and narrowest below ,  where it joins the membranous portion ;  it is lined by transitional epithelium and contains in its posterior wall ,  or floor ,  the orifices of the prostatic utricle ,  ejaculatory ducts ,  and prostatic ducts ,  collectively known as the seminal colliculus  ( aka verumontanum ) 
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the male or female urethra that help protect the epithelium from the corrosive urine
the tubules in the testes where spermatogenesis occurs .
the epithelial layer of the vagina .
a collection of caudal vertebrae in the coccygeal region that are fused and part of the bony pelvis .
the upper dilated end of the nasolacrimal duct that is lodged in a deep groove formed by the lacrimal bone and frontal process of the maxilla ;  it connects the lacrimal canaliculi ,  which drain tears from the eye's surface ,  and the nasolacrimal duct ,  which conveys this fluid into the nasal cavity ;  like the nasolacrimal duct ,  the sac is lined by stratified columnar epithelium with mucus - secreting goblet cells ,  and is surrounded by connective tissue .
a tube running from the outer ear to the middle ear .
the anus and surrounding regions .
the profunda femoris artery  ( also known as the deep femoral artery ,  or the deep artery of the thigh )  is a branch of the femoral artery that ,  as its name suggests ,  travels more deeply  ( posteriorly )  than the rest of the femoral artery .
the medial circumflex femoral artery  ( internal circumflex artery ,  medial femoral circumflex artery )  is an artery in the upper thigh that helps supply blood to the neck of the femur .
a clear ,  colorless ,  bodily fluid ,  that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain and spinal cord .
in the human body ,  the femoral vein is a blood vessel that accompanies the femoral artery in the femoral sheath .
the joint in the bony pelvis between the sacrum and the ilium of the pelvis ,  which are joined by strong ligaments .
the outer layer of peritoneum that is attached to the abdominal and pelvic walls .
a muscle that is part of the region of the hindlimb between the pelvis and ankle .
the part of the cerebral cortex that receives projections from the motor thalamus and which projects to motor neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord .
artery that supplies the axilla
a zone of skin that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organism subdivision that includes the pectoral girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a face  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the major preaxial endochondral bone in the anterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
the major postaxial endochondral bone in the anterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
a bone that is part of the carpal skeleton .
a phalanx that is part of a forelimb autopod [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the head of a long bone that articulates with a neighboring skeletal element and is separated from the shaft by the epiphyseal plate until bone growth stops .
zone of long bone that is between the epiphysis and diaphysis .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a free forelimb region .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb region .
subdivision of skeleton that is the collection of all skeletal elements in a manus ,  which is the distal section of the anterior forelimb skeleton consisting of the mesopodium ,  the metapodium and the acropodium  ( e .g .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the neck by the plane of the superior thoracic aperture and from the abdomen internally by the inferior surface of the diaphragm and externally by the costal margin and associated with the thoracic vertebral column and ribcage and from the back of the thorax by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage ,  the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines ;  together with the abdomen and the perineum ,  it constitutes the trunk proper [ fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that is the collection of all skeletal elements in a pes ,  which is the distal section of the posterior hindlimb skeleton consisting of the mesopodium ,  the metapodium and the acropodium  ( e .g .
the major postaxial endochondral bone in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a bone that is part of the tarsal skeleton .
the metatarsus or metatarsal bones are a group of five long bones in the pes located between the tarsal bones of the hind -  and mid - pes and the phalanges of the toes .
a phalanx that is part of a hindlimb autopod [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the postaxial bone of the proximal tarsals series [ phenoscape ]  .
a subdivision of the head that has as parts the layers deep to the surface of the anterior surface ,  including the mouth ,  eyes ,  and nose  ( when present )  .
a zone of skin that is part of a eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a external ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the forelimb extending from the shoulder to the autopod [ cjm ]  .
the elbow is the region surrounding the elbow - joint - the ginglymus or hinge joint in the middle of the arm .
1st  ( preaxial )  digit of the manus [ wikipedia ]  .
the hip region is located lateral to the gluteal region  ( i .e .
a segment of the hindlimb that corresponds to the joint connecting a hindlimb stylopod and zeugopod .
a digit that is part of a pes  ( foot )  .
a subdivision of the pectoral complex consisting of the structures in the region of the shoulder joint  ( which connects the humerus ,  scapula and clavicle )  .
the joint between adjacent vertebral bodies .
the glenohumeral joint ,  commonly known as the shoulder joint ,  is a multiaxial synovial ball and socket joint and involves articulation between the glenoid fossa of the scapula  ( shoulder blade )  and the head of the humerus  ( upper arm bone )  .
the loose fold of skin that covers the penis
the vaginal plexuses are placed at the sides of the vagina ;  they communicate with the uterine ,  vesical ,  and hemorrhoidal plexuses ,  and are drained by the vaginal veins ,  one on either side ,  into the hypogastric veins .
a vessel that contains or conveys lymph ,  that originates as an interfibrillar or intercellular cleft or space in a tissue or organ ,  and that if small has no distinct walls or walls composed only of endothelial cells and if large resembles a vein in structure [ bto ]  .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
a sesamoid element that is composed of bone tissue .
a carpal bone that proximally_connected_to a forelimb zeugopod skeleton .
any muscle organ that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a shoulder region .
an articular capsule  ( or joint capsule )  is an envelope surrounding a synovial joint .
the knee joint joins the thigh with the leg and consists of two articulations: one between the femur and tibia ,  and one between the femur and patella .
a skeletal joint that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the hindlimb autopod and zeugopod skeletons .
a skeletal joint that is part of a manus  ( hand )   [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the forelimb zeugopod and stylopod skeletons [ obol ]  .
a joint connecting the forelimb zeugopod skeleton with the carpal skeleton .
a nerve that supplies the upper limb ,  including the triceps brachii muscle of the arm ,  as well as all 12 muscles in the posterior osteofascial compartment of the forearm ,  as well as the associated joints and overlying skin .
the axillary nerve is a nerve of the human body ,  that comes off the posterior cord of the brachial plexus at the level of the axilla  ( armpit )  and carries nerve fibers from c5 and c6 .
a nerve which runs near the ulna bone .
the ascending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two - pass circulatory system that lies between the heart and the arch of aorta [ go ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle in the forelimb stylopod which in humans has several functions ,  the most important being to rotate the forearm and to flex the elbow .
the convex portion of the aorta between the ascending and descending parts of the aorta ;  branches from it include the brachiocephalic trunk ,  the left common carotid artery ,  and the left subclavian artery ;  the brachiocephalic trunk further splits to form the right subclavian artery and the right common carotid artery
the triceps brachii muscle  ( latin for 'three - headed' muscle of the arm ,  it is called a three headed muscle because there are three bundles of muscle ,  each of different origin ,  joining together at the elbow )  is the large muscle on the back of the human upper limb .
a zone of skin that is part of a knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the descending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two - pass circulatory system from the arch of aorta to the point where it divides into the common iliac arteries [ go ]  .
the part of the aorta that extends from the origin at the heart to the diaphragm ,  and from which arises numerous branches that supply oxygenated blood to the chest cage and the organs within the chest
abdominal part of aorta: the distal part of the descending aorta ,  which is the continuation of the thoracic part and gives rise to the inferior phrenic ,  lumbar ,  median sacral ,  superior and inferior mesenteric ,  middle suprarenal ,  renal ,  and testicular or ovarian arteries ,  and celiac trunk [ bto ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the radius and the ulna .
a bilaterally paired branched artery that originates from the aortic arches and divides into and includes as parts the internal and external carotid arteries [ cjm ]  .
the rightmost of the two common carotid arteries ,  originating from in the neck from the brachiocephalic trunk .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to the brain and eyes [ mp ] 
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the pectoral appendages ,  usually branching from the dorsal aorta
the subclavian artery that supplies the right pectoral appendage
the first branch of the left and right subclavian arteries that merge to form the single midline basilar artery ;  branches of the vertebral arteries supply the musculature of the neck
the leftmost of the two common carotid arteries ,  originating from the aortic arch in the thorax .
the lymph nodes located in the groin area
the lymph nodes which drain the legs ;  contained in the popliteal fossa
the dorsal metatarsal veins are veins which drain the metatarsus of the foot .
a zone of skin that is part of a hip region .
a tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the urinary bladder and the urethra .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the nose and ends distally with the cricoid cartilage ,  before continuing to the trachea .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
a fleshy subdivision of one side of the face bounded by an eye ,  ear and the nose .
the muscles associated with the larynx .
either of a pair of lingual muscles with origin in the mandible ,  with insertion to the lingual fascia below the mucous membrane and epiglottis ,  with nerve supply from the hypoglossal nerve ,  and whose action depresses and protrudes the tongue .
a muscle that attaches to the hyopid bone and to the tongue and is innervated by cranial nerve xii
a muscle organ that attaches the tongue to some other structure .
the intrinsic tongue muscles are an integral part of the tongue and completely contained within the tongue that are innervated by cranial nerve xii .
a muscle innervated by a facial nerve .
nerve that carries information from the olfactory epithelium to the olfactory bulb [ butler and hodos ]  .
the subclavian artery that supplies the left pectoral appendage
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
one of two jugular veins that collect the blood from the brain ,  the superficial parts of the face ,  and the neck .
a vein that drains blood from the thymus .
the bronchial veins are small vessels that return blood from the larger bronchi and structures at the roots of the lungs .
a congregation of multiple veins .
skeletal muscle derived from cranial mesoderm and controls eye movements .
the levator palpebrae superioris  ( or levator muscle of upper eyelid )  is the muscle in the orbit that elevates the superior  ( upper )  eyelid .
the ciliary muscle is a ring of smooth muscle in the middle layer of the eye that controls the eye's accommodation for viewing objects at varying distances and regulates the flow of aqueous humour through schlemm's canal .
a sphincter muscle that is part of the iris .
a smooth muscle of the eye ,  running radially in the iris that functions as a dilator .
the lingual artery arises from the external carotid between the superior thyroid and facial artery [ wp ]  .
a branch of the lingual artery that supplies the sublingual gland .
a branch of the external carotid artery that supplies structures of the face .
the occipital artery arises opposite the facial artery ,  its path is below the posterior belly of digastric to the occipital region .
an artery that supplies deep structures of the face .
the ophthalmic artery is a branch of the internal carotid artery which supplies branches to supply the eye and other structures in the orbit .
the central retinal artery  ( retinal artery )  branches off the ophthalmic artery ,  running inferior to the optic nerve within its dural sheath to the eyeball .
an artery that supplies the myocardium .
the lacrimal artery arises close to the optic foramen ,  and is one of the largest branches derived from the ophthalmic artery: not infrequently it is given off before the artery enters the orbit .
one of a pair of right - sided and left - sided blood vessels in the circle of willis .
a small epithelioid structure consisting of a small cluster of chemoreceptive and supporting cells located near the bifurcation of the common carotid artery that serves as a chemoreceptive organ that senses the ph ,  carbon dioxide ,  and oxygen concentrations in the blood and plays a crucial role in their homeostatic control .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
a major artery that supplues the hindbrain and runs along the ventral keel of the hindbrain .
the superior cerebellar artery  ( sca )  arises near the termination of the basilar artery .
the posterior cerebral artery  ( pca )  is one of a pair of blood vessels that supplies oxygenated blood to the posterior aspect of the brain in human anatomy ]  .
an epithelial tube or tree of tibes that transports blood away from the heart [ modified from aeo definition ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
the first major branch of the abdominal aorta .
one of the dural venous sinuses and drains the superior sagittal sinus the occipital sinus and the straight sinus ,  and empties into the sigmoid sinus which in turn reaches the jugular bulb .
cranial nerve which connects the midbrain to the extra - ocular and intra - ocular muscles .
a cranial nerve that runs to the eye muscles .
cranial nerve that has three branches  -  the ophthalmic  ( supplying the skin of the nose and upper jaw )  ,  the maxillary and the mandibular  ( supplying the lower jaw )  .
cranial nerve that runs to the eye muscles .
cranial nerve that branches into the supraorbital  ( supplying the skin of the eye region and the lateral line organs here )  ,  the palatine  ( to the roof of the buccal cavity )  ,  and the hyomandibular  ( dividing into the jugular and mental branches )  .
cranial nerve that transmits sound and equilibrium  ( balance )  information from the inner ear to the brain .
cranial nerve that branches into the ramus communicans  ( to the skin )  ,  the pretrematic  ( to the walls of the pharynx and mouth ,  viscero - sensory fibers )  ,  and the larval post - trematic branch  ( lost in the adult )  .
cranial nerve that innervates the muscles of the tongue .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the right lung .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the left lung .
the anterior facial vein  ( facial vein )  commences at the side of the root of the nose ,  and is a direct continuation of the angular vein where it also receives a small nasal branch .
the cerebral veins are divisible into external and internal groups according to the outer surfaces or the inner parts of the hemispheres they drain into .
the triceps surae is a pair of muscles located at the calf  -  the gastrocnemius and the soleus .
a vein that drains the cerebellum .
the central retinal vein  ( retinal vein )  is a short vein that runs through the optic nerve and drains blood from the capillaries of the retina into the larger veins outside the eye .
the cranial ganglion that is associated with and extends fibers into the trigeminal nerve .
the bone at the lower ,  posterior part of the skull
an unpaired bone situated at the base of the skull in front of the temporal bone and basilar part of the occipital bone .
the large ,  irregular bone located at the base and side of the skull ;  consists of three parts at birth: squamous ,  tympanic ,  and petrous
a bone in the skull that separates the nasal cavity from the brain .
a dentary bone that is the only bone in one of the lateral halves of the lower jaw skeleton .
a horseshoe shaped bone situated in the anterior midline of the neck between the chin and the thyroid cartilage .
one of 3 small bones contained within the middle ear space and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid - filled labyrinth .
sense organ in vertebrates that is specialized for the detection of sound ,  and the maintenance of balance .
part of the ear external to the tympanum  ( eardrum )  .
the petrous portion of the temporal bone or pyramid is pyramidal and is wedged in at the base of the skull between the sphenoid and occipital bones .
subdivision of skeleton that is an anterolateral part of the cranium and structurally supports the eye .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the facial nerve  ( seventh cranial nerve ) 
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the ninth cranial nerve .
subdivision of skeletal system that surrounds and protects the brain .
a horn - like keratin structure covering the dorsal aspect of the terminal phalanges of fingers and toes [ wp ]  .
an anatomical cavity that is part of the olfactory apparatus .
subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons .
subdivision of head that consists of the upper jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
subdivision of head that consists of the lower jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
a fold of skin that covers and protects part of the eyeball .
the groups of nerve cell bodies associated with the twelve cranial nerves
nuclear complex containing subnuclei that give rise to the axons of the occulomotor nerve ,  both motor and parasympathetic fibers ,  situated at the midline at the level of the superior colliculus in the midbrain tegmentum  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 533 - 534 )  .
the part of the palate formed from the fusion of the two palatine shelves ,  extensions of the maxillary prominences .
any of the nuclei of the cochlear nuclear complex .
a muscular organ in the floor of the mouth .
one of the paired paranasal sinuses ,  located in the body of the sphenoid bone and communicating with the highest meatus of the nasal cavity on the same side [ mesh ]  .
the cartilaginous joints of the skull ;  these include sphenoethmoidal synchondrosis ,  sphenooccipital synchondrosis ,  sphenopetrosal synchondrosis ,  petrooccipital synchondrosis ,  anterior intraoccipital synchondrosis and posterior intraoccipital synchondrosis .
a specialized receptor organ that is a collection of cells spanning the gustatory epithelium .
the section of the pharynx that lies above the soft palate
the portion of the pharynx that lies between the soft palate and the upper edge of the epiglottis
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pharynx .
the lymph tissue in the roof and posterior wall of the nasopharynx
the muscular ,  non - bony arch - shaped posterior portion of the palate extending from the posterior edge of the hard palate .
conic projection from the posterior edge of the middle of the soft palate ,  composed of connective tissue containing a number of racemose glands ,  and some muscular fibers .
the circular lymphoid tissue formed by the lingual ,  pharyngeal ,  and facial tonsils
either of the paired compound tubuloalveolar  ( aka tubuloacinar )  major salivary glands composed of both serous and mucous secretory cells and situated beneath the mandible .
a continuation of the pharynx that is involved in breathing ,  sound production ,  and protecting the trachea against food aspiration .
the cartilaginous structures that support the larynx .
the most superior of the laryngeal cartilages ,  which is found at the root of the tongue and folds back over the entrance to the larynx during swallowing .
a ligament that is part of a larynx and connexts the cartilages of the larynx
portion of connective tissue with various types of white blood cells enmeshed in it ,  most numerous being the lymphocytes [ wp ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a thyroid follicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense and irregular connective tissue capsule surrounding a parathyroid gland .
a parenchyma that is part of a parathyroid gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a network of orbital structures of the eye that secrete and drain tears from the surface of the eyeball into the nasal cavity ;  these parts include the lacrimal glands ,  lacrimal lake ,  lacrimal ducts ,  lacrimal canals ,  lacrimal sacs ,  nasolacrimal ducts ,  and lacrimal puncta .
collagen - rich odontogenic tissue characteristic of teeth and tooth - like skeletal elements  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  ;  mature dentine is mineralized and develops from predentine tissue ;  often  ( but not always )  tubular and acellular .
a dentine - like hypermineralized substance that covers the tooth tip .
odontoid tissue that is deposited by cementoblasts onto dentine tissue and functions to attach teeth ,  odontodes and other odontogenic derivatives to bone tissue and the integument .
the part in the center of a tooth made up of living soft tissue and cells called odontoblasts [ wp ]  .
the middle ear is the air - filled cavity within the skull of vertebrates that lies between the outer ear and the inner ear .
the part of the ear that projects from the head ,  connecting to the external acoustic meatus .
the tissues that invest or help to invest and support the teeth ,  including the periodontal ligament ,  gingivae ,  cementum ,  and alveolar and supporting bone [ bto ]  .
cranial nerve that branches into the lateral  ( to body sense organs )  and the intestino - accessorial  ( to the skin ,  muscles of shoulder ,  hyoid ,  larynx ,  gut ,  lungs ,  and heart )  .
the frontal sinus occupies the dorsal part of the skull medial to the orbit .
a condensation of odontoblasts that forms the part of a tooth germ that gives rise to dentin and pulp in the mature tooth .
one of the paired paranasal sinuses ,  located in the body of the maxilla ,  communicating with the middle meatus of the nasal cavity .
epithelial tube that transports milk [ go ]  .
the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens
the pigmented middle of the three concentric layers that make up an eye ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body and choroid [ wp , edited ]  .
the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye
the part of the lacrimal duct that connects the lacrimal punctum to the lacrimal sac .
the central circular aperture of the iris through which light rays enter the eye
the smooth stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea
opaque fibrous outer layer of the eyeball [ zfa , kardong , wp ]  .
a skeletal muscle organ that is part of the trunk region .
the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris ,  composed of ciliary muscle and ciliary processes
vascular layer containing connective tissue ,  of the eye lying between the retina and the sclera .
the lamellated connective tissue of the cornea between the bowman and descemet membranes
a double layer covering the ciliary body that produces aqueous humor .
the delicate vascular connective tissue that lies between the anterior surface of the iris and the pars iridica retinae .
the any of the paired peripheral nerves formed by the union of the dorsal and ventral spinal roots from each spinal cord segment [ mp , modified ] 
any of the layers that make up the retina [ mp ]  .
a monolayer of pigmented epithelium covering the neural retina ;  develops from the outer of the two layers of the optic cup [ zfa ]  .
the optic disc or optic nerve head is the location where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve .
cranial nerves are nerves that emerge directly from the brain ,  in contrast to spinal nerves ,  which emerge from segments of the spinal cord .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell receptor segments reside .
the row of jucntional complexes between the plasma membranes of rod segments and the muller glia cells ;  this barrier separates the layer of inner and outer segments of the rods and cones from the outer nuclear layer and forms a blood - retina barrier [ mp ]  .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell bodies reside .
the layer within the retina where the bipolar cells synapse with the photoreceptor cells [ zfa ]  .
cytoarchitectural layer of retina containing closely packed cell bodies ,  the majority of which are bipolar cells  ( adapted from wikipedia )  .
cytoarchitectural layer of retina that contains somata of retinal ganglion cells ,  bounded by the stratum opticum and the inner plexiform layer
layer of the retina formed by expansion of the fibers of the optic nerve
the row of fused muller cell processes and astrocytes that separates the retinal nerve fiber layer from the vitreous [ mp ]  .
cytoarchitectural layer of the retina that is made up of a dense reticulum of fibrils formed by interlaced dendrites of retinal ganglion cells and cells of the inner nuclear layer  ( adapted from wikipedia ) 
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
a transparent ,  semigelatinous substance that fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina
gelatinous mucoid tissue that is composed of vitreous humor and fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina [ mp , modified ] 
the chamber in the eyeball enclosing the vitreous humor ,  bounded anteriorly by the lens and ciliary body and posteriorly by the posterior wall of the eyeball [ bto , modified ]  .
the clusters of neurons in the somatic peripheral nervous system which contain the cell bodies of sensory nerve axons ,  interneurons and non - neuronal supporting cells .
any of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive ) 
any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive ) 
a layer of epithelial cells that is part of the eye .
the elastic ,  clear ,  membrane - like structure ,  that is outer most layer of the lens
ganglion that has dendrites that form a junction between autonomic nerves originating from the central nervous system and autonomic nerves innervating their target organs in the periphery .
a ganglion of the sympathetic nervous system .
ganglion containing neurons that receive innervation from parasympathetic neurons in the central nervous system and subserves parasympathetic functions through innervation of smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands .
anatomical junction where subdivisions of two or more neural trees interconnect with one another to form a network through which nerve fibers of the constituent nerve trees become regrouped ;  together with other nerve plexuses ,  nerves and ganglia ,  it constitutes the peripheral nervous system .
the mucous membrane that lines the inner surface of the eyelids and the front of the eyeball
an intermingling of fiber fascicles from adjacent spinal nerves to form a network .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine where it proceeds through the neck then the axilla and into the arm where it innervates skin and muscle .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine that travels to the pelvic appendage where it innervates skin and muscle .
a nerve plexus that is part of an autonomic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the lacrimal glands are paired almond - shaped glands ,  located in or near the orbital region ,  that secrete the aqueous layer of the tear film .
a modified lobulated sebaceous gland at the rim of an eyelid ,  responsible for the supply of meibum .
any of the coil glands of the skin that secrete sweat
a holocrine gland that secretes sebum into the hair follicles ,  or in hairless areas into ducts .
one of the cartilage structures in the nose that provide form and support [ wp ]  .
the mucous lining of the larynx ,  which is composed of squamous epithelium in the upper larynx and ciliated columnar epithelium in the lower larynx .
the paired air - filled cavities surrounded by the bones of the face that are lined by mucous membranes and are continuous with the nasal cavity
the mucous membrane that lines the nasal cavity [ mp ]  .
aqueous substance secreted by the lacrimal gland .
the fibrous investing tissue ,  covered by keratinized epithelium ,  that immediately surrounds a tooth and is contiguous with its periodontal ligament and with the mucosal tissues of the mouth [ glossary of periodontal terms 2001 ]  .
one of the three largest glands of the oral cavity that secrete most of the saliva ,  including the parotid ,  submandibular ,  and sublingual glands .
one of the smaller ,  largely mucus - secreting ,  exocrine glands of the oral cavity ,  consisting of the labial ,  buccal ,  molar ,  lingual ,  and palatine glands [ mp ]  .
the parotid gland is the largest of the salivary glands .
the small mucin - producing salivary glands in the floor of the mouth beneath the tongue ,  anterior to the submandibular gland
one of the two fleshy folds which surround the opening of the mouth .
lip that covers the upper portion of the mouth .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
a fluid produced in the oral cavity by salivary glands ,  typically used in predigestion ,  but also in other functions .
the duct of a salivary gland .
a duct of a sublingual gland .
a system of fluid passages in the inner ear ,  including both the cochlea ,  which is part of the auditory system ,  and the vestibular system ,  which provides the sense of balance .
one of three half - circular ,  interconnected tubes located inside each ear [ wp ]  .
the spiral - shaped bony canal in the inner ear containing the hair cells that transduce sound .
complex labyrinthine structure that comprises sensory endorgans specialized for vestibular ,  auditory ,  and acoustico - vestibular sensation .
cartilage of the pinna and much of the external ear canal .
organ with organ cavity which consists of the vestibular labyrinth and the cochlear labyrinth .
a collection of channels that connects the conjunctival sac with the nasal cavity ,  encompassing the lacrimal ducts ,  the lacrimal sac and the naso - lacrimal duct .
outermost layer of an organ [ wp ]  .
the small membranous canal ,  connecting with both saccule and utricle of the membranous labyrinth ,  passing through the aqueduct of vestibule ,  and terminating in the endolymphatic sac
the part of the membranous labyrinth that includes the utricle and saccule lodged within the vestibule and the semicircular ducts lodged eccentrically in the corresponding canals .
fatty lubricant matter secreted by sebaceous glands ,  and made of made of triglyceride oils ,  wax ,  squalene ,  and metabolytes of fat - producing cells [ bto , wp ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a external ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of two bilateral ,  largely symmetrical organ subdivisions within the telencephalon which contain the cerebral cortex and cerebral white matter .
anterior portion of the neocortex ,  lying anterior to the central sulcus in humans .
lower lateral part of the cerebral hemisphere .
upper central part of the cerebral hemisphere .
a nerve that arises from the caudal cervical nerves and is primarily the motor nerve of the diaphragm but also sends sensory fibers to the pericardium .
part of the hippocampal formation forming a 'v' or 'u' shaped structure with the opening bounded by hippocampal area ca3 .
a network formed by blood vessels and the tela choroidea which secretes csf into the ventricular spaces .
the most anterior region the brain including both the telencephalon and diencephalon .
the midbrain is the middle division of the three primary divisions of the developing chordate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain  ( in vertebrates ,  includes a ventral part containing the cerebral peduncles and a dorsal tectum containing the corpora quadrigemina and that surrounds the aqueduct of sylvius connecting the third and fourth ventricles )  [ go ]  .
a segment of the developing hindbrain [ zfa ]  .
part of the forebrain consisting of paired olfactory bulbs and cerebral hemispheres .
the division of the forebrain that develops from the foremost primary cerebral vesicle .
rostral segment of the hindbrain that has as its parts the pons  ( where present )  and the cerebellum [ wp , modified ]  .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures [ fma ]  .
subcortical brain region consisting of paired gray matter bodies in the dorsal diencephalon and forming part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle of the brain .
a specialized brain region of the ventral diencephalon arising near the end of the segmentation period ;  the embryonic hypothalamic region will give rise to the posterior pituitary gland as well as a number of brain nuclei .
most dorsal part of the thalamus ,  comprising the pineal gland and habenular nuclei in most vertebrates .
the epithelial lining of the trachea which contains numerous ciliated cells
an epithelium that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a midline ,  cone like structure located in the dorso - caudal roof of the 3rd ventricle ,  attached by peduncles to the habenular and posterior commissures .
diencephalic white matter  ( tract )  which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons after which they have passed through the optic chiasm [ zfa ]  .
a specialized accessory gland of the skin of mammals that secretes milk .
organ component of the mammary gland which consists of an aggregate of mammary alveoli that communicate with a lobular lactiferous duct .
an emulsion of fat globules within a fluid that is secreted by the mammary gland during lactation .
an endothelium that is part of a capillary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vein  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
ventral part of the midbrain ,  separated from the hindbrain by the isthmus [ isbn:0471888893 ]  .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a spinal cord .
a stratified squamous epithelium consisting of a basal layer ;  it is keratinized or parakeratinized [ bto ]  .
an area of cerebral cortex defined on the basis of cytoarchitecture that have six layers .
an epithelium that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a oropharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a part of the brain consisting of a three layered cortex located in the forebrain bordering the medial surface of the lateral ventricle .
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the hyaline cartilaginous structures that support the bronchi ,  present as irregular rings in the larger bronchi  ( and not as regular as in the trachea )  ,  and as small plates and islands in the smaller bronchi ;  as the branching continues through the bronchial tree ,  the amount of hyaline cartilage in the walls decreases until it is absent in the smallest bronchioles [ mp ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines a terminal bronchiole .
the parenchymatous tissue of the spleen that surrounds splenic blood vessels ,  consists of compact masses of lymphatic cells and is where foreign material removed from the blood is used to initiate an immune reaction that results in the production of antibodies
diffuse system of small concentrations of lymphoid tissue found in various sites of the body such as the gastrointestinal tract ,  thyroid ,  breast ,  lung ,  salivary glands ,  eye ,  and skin [ wp ]  .
mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue in digestive tract .
a diffuse collection of lymphpoid cells that participate in airway immune responses
organism substance that is composed of sperm cells suspended in seminal fluid .
the liquid component of blood ,  in which erythrocytes are suspended .
vital aqueous secretion of the liver that is formed by hepatocytes and modified down stream by absorptive and secretory properties of the bile duct epithelium .
a submucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial layer that lines the luminal space of the esophagus
one of the minute vessels that collect deoxygenated blood from the capillary plexuses returns it to the veins
the smallest division of the artery located between the muscular arteries and the capillaries [ go ]  .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
a monolayer of specialized ,  flattened ,  mitochondria - rich cells that lines the posterior surface of the cornea and faces the anterior chamber of the eye [ wp ]  .
a layer of epithelium that lines the heart ,  blood vessels  ( endothelium ,  vascular )  ,  lymph vessels  ( endothelium ,  lymphatic )  ,  and the serous cavities of the body [ mesh ]  .
organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother ,  partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin [ go ]  .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
cartilage tissue primarily composed of type ii collagen  ( thin fibrils )  and a glassy appearance .
cartilage tissue intermediate between hyaline cartilage and dense connective tissue ;  contains of abundant collagen fibers ;  chondrocytes often arranged in columns .
cartilage tissue that is flexible and contains abundant elastic fibers .
a sensory epithelium inside the nasal cavity that is responsible for detecting odors [ wp ]  .
any joint that connects a rib to another structure  ( or another rib )  .
peripheral portion of the lymph node ,  underneath the capsule [ wp ]  .
the mdeullary portion of the lymph node ,  which contains large blood vessels ,  sinuses and medullary cords that contain antibody - secreting plasma cells .
a plexus of nerves situated at the base of the heart that innervate the heart .
an artery that carries deoxygenated blood from heart to the lungs .
the tough fibrous layer surrounding the kidney which is covered in a thick layer of perirenal adipose tissue that functions to provide some protection from trauma and damage
pulmonary veins are blood vessels that transport blood from the lungs to the heart [ go ]  .
a vein that conducts blood from the digestive organs ,  spleen ,  pancreas ,  and gallbladder to the liver [ bto ]  .
soft tissue that lines the non - cartilaginous surfaces within joints with cavities  ( synovial joints )  .
a cranial nerve that originates from neurons in the medulla and in the cervical spinal cord .
a nervous system structure composed primarily of nerve cell bodies  ( somas )  .
posterior part of the cerebral hemisphere  ( msh ) 
the deepest layer of the epidermis ,  which is composed of dividing stem cells and anchoring cells
the layer of polyhedral cells in the epidermis found between the stratum granulosum and stratum basale ;  shrinkage and adhesion of these cells gives a spiny or prickly appearance
the outer layer of the epidermis ,  consisting of several layers of flat keratinized non - nucleated cells
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
the simple columnar epithelial lining of the gall bladder .
projection of skin containing the outlets for 15 - 20 lactiferous ducts arranged cylindrically around the tip .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a tiny smooth muscle that connects the hair follicle with the dermis .
muscle tissue that contains fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations .
part of the metencephalon that lies in the posterior cranial fossa behind the brain stem .
a systemic artery that supplies the lung with with oxygenated blood .
an endothelium that is part of a lymphatic vessel  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a two - lobed endocrine gland found in all vertebrates ,  located in front of and on either side of the trachea in humans ,  and producing various hormones ,  such as triiodothyronine and calcitonin [ bto ]  .
the pontine raphe nucleus is one of the raphe nuclei .
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thick capsule of dense irregular connective tissue that surrounds each adrenal gland and contains scattered elastic fibers ;  the capsule contains a rich plexus of blood vessels  ( mainly small arteries )  and numerous nerve fibers ;  some blood vessels and nerves enter the substance of the gland in the trabeculae that extend inward from the capsule and then leave the trabeculae to enter the cortex .
each renal artery gives off some small inferior suprarenal branches to the suprarenal gland ,  the ureter ,  and the surrounding cellular tissue and muscles .
an artery that supplies the diaphragm
the ganglion associated with the lingual nerve that provides postsynaptic fibers to the submandibular and sublingual glands
the femoral artery is a large artery in the muscles of the thigh .
the endocardial cushion is a specialized region of mesenchymal cells that will give rise to the heart septa and valves [ go ]  .
the sinus venosus is a large cardiac chamber at the inflow tract that receives venous blood from systemic circulation .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
a fibrous remnant of the allantoic stalk ,  a narrow fetal canal connecting the apex of the urinary bladder with the umbilicus located in the space of retzius ,  between the transversalis fascia anteriorly and the peritoneum posteriorly .
the layer of flattened cells containing basophilic granules of keratohyalin and lying just above the stratum spinosum  ( spiny layer )  of the epidermis
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
a tube - like opening in the epidermis where the hair shaft develops and into which the sebaceous glands open [ go ]  .
the main part of the hair which is composed of trichocytes and is divided into the cortex and medulla .
an organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
smooth and glossy outer protective cell layer of hair shaft
a cortex that is part of a hair  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the right side of the heart .
cardiac chamber in which blood enters the heart .
cardiac chamber through which blood leaves the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac septum that divides the left and right atria of the heart .
the postcranial subdivision of skeleton structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins ;  in human consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis [ zfa + fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton which which consists of all the skeletal elements in in the pectoral and pelvic appendage complexes [ cjm ]  .
the fibrous membrane forming the outer of the three coverings that surrounds the brain within the cranial cavity ;  consists of two layers including the periosteal layer and the meningeal layer .
a dura mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
cardiac septum which separates the right ventricle from the left ventricle .
anatomical organ component composed of a double layer of serous membrane that suspends a viscus from the body wall or connects adjacent viscera and in doing so conveys blood vessels ,  lymphatics and nerves to and from the viscera .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the thin membranous structure between the two heart atria or the thick muscular structure between the two heart ventricles .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
a paired appendage that is evolved from a paired fin .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pectoral girdle .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pelvic girdle region .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
sensory system responsible for the perception of spatial orientation and auditory stimuli .
the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
subdivision of digestive tract that connects the stomach to the large intestine and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place  ( with the exception of ruminants )  .
pair of nostrils .
an organ that aids digestion and stores bile produced by the liver [ wp ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a paired organ of the urinary tract which has the production of urine as its primary function .
the first part of the small intestine .
the portion of the small intestine that extends from the duodenum to the ileum
the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon
an ovary that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ovary that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
in mammals ,  the pronephros is the first of the three embryonic kidneys to be established and exists only transiently .
the fibrous connective tissue surrounding the thymus .
the outer part of a thymus lobule that surrounds the medulla and is composed of closely packed lymphocytes
medullary portion of thymus .the reticulum is coarser than in the cortex ,  the lymphoid cells are relatively fewer in number ,  and there are found peculiar nest - like bodies ,  the concentric corpuscles of hassall .
a lobule that is part of a thymus .
a a collection of brainstem nuclei that functions in multiple aspects of hearing and is an important component of the ascending and descending auditory pathways of the auditory system .
the superficial gray matter of the cerebellum .
a cardial valve in the atrioventricular region that separates the atrium from the ventricle and prevent backflow from the ventricles into the atria during systole .
an atrioventricular valve that is part of the outflow part of the right atrium .
an atrioventricular valve that is part of the outflow part of the left atrium .
cardiac valve which has as its parts the anterior ,  right posterior and left posterior cusps ,  attached to the fibrous ring of aortic valve .
the semilunar valve of the heart that lies between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery .
the locus ceruleus is a dense cluster of neurons within the dorsorostral pons .
nucleus containing parasympathetic neurons giving rise to the parasympathetic division of the facial nerve ,  innervating the salivary glands  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 703 )  .
the endocardium is an anatomical structure comprised of an endothelium and an extracellular matrix that forms the innermost layer of tissue of the heart ,  and lines the heart chambers [ go ]  .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
lung which consists of the right upper lobe ,  middle lobe and right lower lobe .
lung which consists of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe .
the small terminal dilation of the alveolar ducts around which the alveoli form pocket - like clusters
the respiratory conducting tubes distal to the respiratory bronchiole that lead to the alveolar sacs and the alveoli
the main bronchus on the right side .
the main bronchus on the left side .
the white substance of the spinal cord lying on either side between the ventral median fissure and the ventral roots of the spinal nerves .
one of two branches of the trachea .
the lobar bronchus is the major airway within the respiratory tree that starts by division of the principal bronchi on both sides and ends at the point of its own subdivision into tertiary or segmental bronchi [ go ]  .
the tertiary bronchi  ( also known as the segmental bronchi )  arise from the secondary bronchi .
the upper conducting airways of the lung ;  these airways arise from the terminus of the trachea
the conducting airway of the lungs found terminal to the bronchi ;  these structures contain neither cartilage nor mucous - secreting glands ;  the epithelium of the bronchioles becomes thinner with each branching
the last conducting structure of non - respiratory bronchioles ;  after this point ,  the airways have alveoli in their walls
a bronchiole that is the first segment of the respiratory zone .
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
part of the hippocampal formation that is bounded by the entorhinal cortex and area ca1 .
anatomical cluster consisting of the hematopoietic system and the lymphoid system ,  or its analogs .
capsule surrounding lymph node composed of connective tissue with some plain muscle fibers .
membranous process coming from capsule of lymph node [ wp ]  .
the glandular ,  anterior lobe of the pituitary gland .
the posterior part of the pituitary gland that secretes hormones involved in blood pressure regulation such as oxytocin and antidiuretic hormon .
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a trachea .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments .
fibrous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the vertebral column and the limbs as well as articulating ossicles ,  are connected by skeletal ligaments or membranes .
a continuation of the neuron projection bundle component of a nerve inside ,  crossing or immediately outside the central nervous system .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by cartilage .
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by hyaline cartilage .
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by fibrocartilage .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by an articular capsule which encloses a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
from the posterior wall of the saccule a canal ,  the ductus endolymphaticus ,  is given off ;  this duct is joined by the ductus utriculosaccularis ,  and then passes along the aquaeductus vestibuli and ends in a blind pouch ,  the endolymphatic sac ,  on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ,  where it is in contact with the dura mater .
the part of the coelemic cavity lumen that is enclosed by the walls of the thorax .
an intersegmental rod - shaped bone that forms in the peritoneal membrane and attach to the vertebral parapophyses .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the nonvascular ,  resilient ,  flexible hyaline connective tissue that connects the end of a true rib to the sternum or the end of a false rib with the with the lower border of the costal cartilage above it
a rib that is ventrally connected to the sternum .
part of the central nervous system located in the vertebral canal continuous with and caudal to the brain ;  demarcated from brain by plane of foramen magnum .
endoskeletal elements that encase the brain ,  nose ,  inner ear [ cjm ]  .
the jelly - like substance in the middle of the spinal disc which is a remnant of the notochord
one of the bones of the upper jaw situated between and in front of the maxillae [ vhog ]  .
either one of the pair of tubular extensions from the uterine body where the uterus and the uterine tubes meet ;  uterine horns are anterior mullerian duct - derived structures
the ventral grey column of the spinal cord [ mp ]  .
a bulbous anterior projection of the olfactory lobe that is the place of termination of the olfactory nerves and is especially well developed in lower vertebrates  ( as fishes )  [ bto ]  .
white matter tract that contains projections from the olfactory bulb to other parts of the brain
an organ that houses olfactory neurons and is responsible for the sense of smell .
an artery that is part of the optic stalk of the eye and extends from the optic disc through the vitreous humor to the lens .
a composite substructure of the brainstem that consists of the midbrain reticular formation ,  the pontine reticular formation and the medullary reticular formation  (  carpenter - 1983  )  .
at the hinder part of the medial wall of the vestibule is the orifice of the vestibular aqueduct ,  which extends to the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone .
portion of tissue  ( or germinal matrix )  upon which the nail rests ,  the part of the nail bed that extends beneath the nail root and contains nerves ,  lymph and blood vessels .
a brain ventricle that is part of a telencephalon .
part of the ventricular system of the brain ,  forming a single large cavity in the midline of the diencephalon ;  it is continuous with the lateral ventricles through the interventricular foramen and the fourth ventricle through the cerebral aqueduct .
part of choroid plexus contained in the third ventricle
choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle
spinal cord structure that is part of the ventricular system and is filled with cerebral - spinal fluid and runs the length of the spinal cord .
a bars of hyaline cartilage located between the distal part of a rib and a costal cartilage ,  connecting the ribs to the sternum  .
organ system subdivision that consists of the organs and ducts that are involved in the production and transportation of bile .
the mesentery that originates from the dorsal side of the peritoneal cavity [ zfa ]  .
stalk - like part of the brain that includes amongst its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain [ zfa , mp , generalized ]  .
spherical outcropping of the respiratory bronchioles and primary site of gas exchange with the blood .
one of the layers of the neocortex .
the atrial part of middle layer of the heart ,  comprised of involuntary muscle
one of the three layers of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation .
the layers of the laminar structure of the hippocampus .
part of choroid plexus contained in the lateral ventricle
a neural nucleus that is part of the brain .
the ridge - shaped grey matter of the spinal cord that extends longitudunally through the center of each half of the spinal cord ,  and are largely or entirely composed of nerve cell bodies and their dendrites and some supportive tissue .
neural tissue consisting of myelinated axons connecting grey matter areas of the central nervous system .
the regions of the spinal cord that are largely or entirely composed of myelinated nerve cell axons and contain few or no neural cell bodies or dendrites .
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
any muscle organ that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the urethra is a renal system organ that carries urine from the bladder to outside the body .
a lamina propria that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a flexible rod - shaped body found in embryos of all chordates .
somites are spheres of epithelial cells that form sequentially along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo through mesenchymal to epithelial transition of the presomitic mesoderm .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce exocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the connecting cord from the developing embryo to the placenta .
an arterial trunk which is continuous with the heart and branches into the pulmonary arteries .
the duct of the submadibular gland that opens at the sublingual papilla near the frenulum of the tongue
white matter structure containing massive numbers of commissural fibers connecting cortical areas in the two cerebral hemispheres .it is subdivided into a genu ,  a rostrum ,  a body ,  and a splenium .
the layer of connective tissue comprised of the endometrial lining of the uterus which fluctuates in thickness throughout the menstrual cycle .
a lamina propria that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the tissue made up of epithelial cells that lines the inside of the lobar bronchus .
an epithelium that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a segmental bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a specialized region of ectoderm found between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm and composed of highly migratory pluripotent cells that delaminate in early embryonic development from the dorsal neural tube and give rise to an astounding variety of differentiated cell types [ mp ]  .
set of all muscles in abdomen .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
a region of the serous membrane that forms the innermost layer of the pericardium and the outer surface of the heart .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
the cardiac conduction system consists of specialized cardiomyocytes that regulate the frequency of heart beat [ go ] 
the part of the cardiac conduction system that controls the timing of heart muscle contraction .
an area of conducting tissue between the atria and the ventricles of the heart that conducts the normal electrical impulse from the atria to the ventricles .
a part of the his - purkinje system that transmits signals from the av node to the cardiac purkinje fibers [ go ] 
the lower segment of the trunk ,  inferioposterior to the abdomen proper ,  in the transition area between the trunk and the lower limbs .
serous membrane which is divided into parietal and visceral serous pericardium .
a serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity [ vhog , modified ]  .
membrane organ which is attached to the pericardial sac proper and the central tendon of diaphragm and is continuous with the pretracheal fascia .
membrane organ that surrounds the brain and the spinal cord .
the innermost layer of the leptomeninges ,  consisting of a delicate membrane closely covering the surface of the brain and spinal cord , and lying under the arachnoid membrane .
a think avascular meningeal layer ,  between the pia mater and the dural mater .
thick ,  fibrous meningeal covering surrounding the brain and spinal cord .
a thin membrane that separates the external ear from the middle ear ,  consisting of two epithelia  ( one part of the the external accoustic meatus epithelium ,  the other part of the tympanic cavity epithelium )  with a fibrous layer between them .
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
any of the small paired racemose glands below the apex of the prostate in males ,  located posterolateral to the membranous portion of the urethra at the base of the penis ,  between the two layers of the fascia of the urogenital diaphragm ,  in the deep perineal pouch ,  and enclosed by transverse fibers of the sphincter urethrae membranaceae muscle ;  homologous to the greater vestibular  ( bartholin's )  glands in the female [ mp ] 
the prostate gland is a partly muscular ,  partly glandular body that is situated near the base of the mammalian male urethra and secretes an alkaline viscid fluid which is a major constituent of the ejaculatory fluid .
endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products directly into the circulatory system rather than through a duct .
either of a pair of complex endocrine organs near the anterior medial border of the kidney consisting of a mesodermal cortex that produces glucocorticoid ,  mineralocorticoid ,  and androgenic hormones and an ectodermal medulla that produces epinephrine and norepinephrine [ bto ]  .
anatomical structure of largely lymphoid tissue that functions in cell - mediated immunity by being the site where t cells develop .
the soft tissue that fills the cavities of bones
either of the two small almond - shaped masses of lymph tissue found on either side of the oropharynx
tonsils on the left and right sides at the back of the throat .
a bone that is part of the metacarpal skeleton .
any skeletal muscle that is part of the head region .
any muscle that is part of the cervical  ( neck )  region .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the abdomen .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
the middle limb segment of the pectoral free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
distal portion of the hind limb ,  including tarsal region ,  metatarsal region and digits .
a digit that is part of a manus  ( hand )  .
anatomical system that is involved in the production of hematopoietic cells .
lymph is the fluid that is formed when interstitial fluid enters the conduits of the lymphatic system through lymph capillaries [ wp ]  .
the paired channels leading from the lacrimal sacs to the inferior meatus of the nose ,  through which tears are conducted through the nasal cavity
organ with organ cavity which connects the cavity of the middle ear to the cavity of the pharynx .
any of the ducts that form the biliary tree ,  carrying bile from the liver to the small intestine .
the bone which normally forms the lateral upper jaw in osteichthyans ,  including tetrapods .
distal segment of the fore limb ,  including carpal region ,  metacarpal region and digits .
the outer serous membrane of the pulmonary pleural .
the inner serous membrane of the pulmonary pleural .
the fluid - filled cavity that lies between the visceral and parietal pleurae .
anatomical system that protects the body from foreign substances ,  cells ,  and tissues by producing the immune response and that includes especially the thymus ,  spleen ,  lymphoid tissue ,  lymphocytes including the b cells and t cells ,  and antibodies .
a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels .
the combination of pericardial sac  ( a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels )  plus fibrous pericardium .
parietal serous membrane which is part of the pericardium and forms the outer layer of the pericardial sac .
transudate contained in the pericardial cavity .
the autonomic nervous system is composed of neurons that are not under conscious control ,  and is comprised of two antagonistic components ,  the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems .
the small ,  erectile body located at the anterior end of the vulva
the ossified form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
a vertebra that is located in the cervical region of the vertebral column .
large vertebra of the movable part of the vertebral column ,  characterized by the absence of the foramen transversarium within the transverse process ,  and by the absence of facets on the sides of the body .
an external caudal extension of the body .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
the abdominal segment of the torso .
skeletal tissue that is avascular ,  rich in glycosaminoglycans  ( gags )  and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae .
a gland that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
hippocampus  ( proper )  plus dentate gyrus and subiculum [ definition derived from nif comments and ontology alignment ]  .
part of the ventricular system of the brain ,  forming a single large irregularly shaped cavity located on the midline of the rhombencephalon ,  between the medulla ,  pons and the isthmus ventrally and the cerebellum dorsally .
the part of the digestive system that contains the liver and the biliary system
an epithelium that is part of the mouth and lines the oral cavity ,  typically stratified squamous ,  and may be para -  ,  ortho -  or non -  keratinized .
visceral serous membrane which is continuous with the parietal serous pericardium and is attached to the myocardium [ fma ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
cervical lymph nodes are lymph nodes found in the neck .
the apical portion of the tubular structure extending from the hypothalamus to the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland
white matter that is part of a cerebral hemisphere .
a blood vessel that is part of a choroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the postaxial bone of the proximal carpal region .
a large sesamoid bone found in the distal femur / proximal tibial region of the hindlimb of tetrapods .
the mucous secreting gland associated with the mucuous membrane lining the uterus .
the evaginations of the mucous membrane of the nasal cavity into the ethmoidal bony labyrinth ,  forming multiple small paranasal sinuses
an artery that supplies the anterior chest wall and the breasts .
the small branching sprouts of the dorsal aorta that grow across the medial surface of the somite ,  turn right angles to grow over that surface and then fuse with other sprouts and form the vertebral arteries adjacent to the neural tube ;  the intersomitic arteries supply the body wall and persist in the adult as the posterior intercostal ,  subcostal and the lumbar arteries
arteries that supply the spinal cord .
a blood vessel that drains from from an lower eyelid .
a tributary of the iliac vein that drains the urinary bladder .
any skeletal muscle organ that is part of a anterior abdominal wall .
the lymphatic system in vertebrates is a network of conduits that carry a clear fluid called lymph .
clear to pale yellow watery secretions from the glands lining the small intestine walls .
a mucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
terminal segment of free limb ,  immediately distal to the zeugopod region .
the middle free limb segment ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
the proximal free limb segment .
a commissure that connects the two cerebral hemispheres .
the bone that is situated in the orbit on either side of the presphenoid ;  it generally forms a part of the sphenoid in the adult ,  and may be independent in the young
skeletal tissue with a collagen - rich extracellular matrix vascularized ,  mineralized with hydroxyapatite and typically including osteocytes located in lacunae that communicate with one another by cell processes  ( in canaliculi )  .
the minute canals that pass the prostatic secretions to the urethra .
the vocal apparatus of the larynx ,  which includes the vocal cords and the opening between them
long bone is a limb bone that is subcylindrical and has a shaft with periosteum separating the ends of the bones .
an epithelium that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymph node that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the lymph nodes located in the mesentery ,  of which there are 3 classes: ileocolic ,  juxtaintestinal mesenteric ,  and central superior group .
a transient endocrine gland that develops from the postovulatory or atretic follicles and secretes progesterone ;  it is thought to be related to egg retention [ pmid ]  .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
bone tissue forms directly within mesenchyme ,  and does not replace other tissues [ tao ]  .
the thick fibrous membrane that closely invests the entire surface of a bone except the articular cartilage at synovial joints
the base of skull is the most inferior area of the skull ,  composed of the endocranium and lower parts of the skull roof .
connective tissue composed of elastic fibers .
the middle layer of an artery or vein .
the innermost layer of a blood vessel which is a lining of endothelial cells facing the lumen [ kardong ]  .
a lymph node that is part of a pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymph node located in the sacral region .
a major subdivision of a mature or developing limb ,  including both skeletal elements  ( or the mesenchyme that gives rise to the skeletal elements )  and associated tissues ,  such as muscle ,  connective tissue ,  integument .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
the rapidly proliferating mass of cells at the caudal extremity of the embryo ;  remnant of the primitive node .
one of a series of paired bulges that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
a subdivision of the autopod that has as part a series of phalanges together with associated vasculature ,  musculature ,  integument and nerves .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
the cavity that is enclosed by the central nervous system .
part of cerebral hemisphere located on the medial surface ,  forming a ring around the brain stem
the cochlear nuclei consist of:  ( a )  the dorsal cochlear nucleus ,  corresponding to the tuberculum acusticum on the dorso - lateral surface of the inferior peduncle ;  and  ( b )  the ventral or accessory cochlear nucleus ,  placed between the two divisions of the nerve ,  on the ventral aspect of the inferior peduncle .
anatomical divisons of the brain according to one or more criteria ,  e .g .
initial segment of the occulomotor nerve as it leaves the midbrain .
nuclear complex containing the vestibular nuclei .
nucleus located beneath the floor of the 4th ventricle in the pontine tegmentum ,  containing motor neurons innervating the lateral rectus muscle of the eye  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 533 ) 
nucleus in the midbrain at the level of the inferior colliculus near the midline ,  containing the motor neurons giving rise to the trochlear nerve ,  innervating the contralateral superior oblique extraocular muscle of the eye  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed ,  1981 ,  pg .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a cervical region .
either of the two roots that come of the vestibulocochlear nerve
a regional part of brain that is part of a cerebellar cortex  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the medial orbital gyrus presents a well - marked antero - posterior sulcus ,  the olfactory sulcus ,  for the olfactory tract .
nerve fibers arising from motor neurons in the abducens nucleus that are contained within the pontine tegmentum
the crossing of the two trochlear nerves at their exit through the velum medullare anterius .
parietal lobe of the left hemisphere of the brain
parietal lobe of the right hemisphere of the brain
a limbic lobe that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a limbic lobe that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
an occipital lobe that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
an occipital lobe that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a temporal lobe that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a temporal lobe that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a frontal cortex that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a frontal cortex that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the left side of a brain .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the right side of a brain .
the ganglion of the vestibular nerve .
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the eighth cranial nerve during embryogenesis ;  splits in later development to form the cochlear and vestibular ganglia
nucleus forming a longitudinal cell column in the medulla ,  close beneath the floor of the 4th ventricle ,  containing motor neurons that innervate the muscles of the tongue  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 453 ) 
the central sulcus is a fold in the cerebral cortex of brains in vertebrates .
the deep groove which separates the two hemispheres of the vertebrate brain .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a trigeminal nuclear complex .
a sensory epithelium that is part of a gustatory system .
a cellular layer of the dentate gyrus enclosed by the granule cell layer .
the granular layer is the innermost layer of the cerebellar cortex .
dorsal portion of the pons ,  containing cranial nervee nuclei ,  ascending and descending tracts and reticular nuclei .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
the thoracic nerves are the spinal nerves emerging from the thoracic vertebrae .
a nerve fiber that is part of a trigeminal nerve .
a thick plate of cells derived from the neural ectoderm in the head region of the embryo that develops into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
an epithelial sac of invaginated ectoderm formed from the otic placode that gives rise to the structures of the inner ear [ mp ] 
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
a single row of glia at the dorsal midline of the developing neural tube along the entire anterior - posterior axis .
a temporary epithelium that derives from the outer layer of the ectdoerm and is shed once the inner layer differentiates to form a true epidermis .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
in mammals ,  the pronephric duct is the predecessor of the wolffian duct [ wp ]  .
blood islands are structures in the developing embryo which lead to many different parts of the circulatory system .
a horseshoe - shaped thickening of the endoderm at the cranial  ( rostral )  end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells which ,  together with the notochord ,  induces the formation of the neural plate from the overlying ectodermal cells and contributes mesodermal type cells to the surrounding tissue
the intermediate mesoderm is located between the lateral mesoderm and the paraxial mesoderm .
the second pharyngeal arch will form the hyoid apparatus .
lateral neurogenic placodes positioned dorsal of the epibranchial placodes .
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
a cranial placode which ,  once specified ,  invaginates to form an otic cup ,  which eventually separates from the surface ectoderm to form the otic vesicle or otocyst ,  a rounded structure without appar -  ent polarity .
a neurogenic placode that arises at the level of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary and develops into a trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye [ zfa ]  .
a thickened portion of ectoderm which serves as the precursor to the lens .
paired organ that connects the primitive kidney wolffian body  ( or mesonephros )  to the cloaca and serves as the anlage for certain male reproductive organs .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
the paraxial mesoderm is the mesoderm located bilaterally adjacent to the notochord and neural tube [ go ] 
focal thickenings of the embryonic ectoderm that form immediately dorsal and caudal of the clefts between the pharyngeal arches and that produce the neuroblasts that migrate and condense to form the distal cranial ganglia .
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become muscle cells .
trunk portion of the neural crest .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardical precursors laterally .
extension of the dorsal aorta in the tail .
ventral somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton [ xao ]  .
the initial thyroid precursor ,  the thyroid primordium ,  starts as a simple midline thickening and develops to form the thyroid diverticulum .
the narrow ,  proximal portion of the optic vesicle which connects the embryonic eye and forebrain
neural crest cells  ( nccs )  originating in the anterior part of the developing embryo and residing between the mid - diencephalon and the forming hindbrain ;  cranial nccs migrate dorsolaterally to form the craniofacial mesenchyme that differentiates into various craniofacial cartilages and bones ,  cranial neurons ,  glia ,  and connective tissues of the face ;  these cells enter the pharyngeal pouches and arches where they give rise to thymic cells ,  bones of the middle ear and jaw  ( mandible )  ,  and the odontoblasts of the tooth primordia ;  like their counterparts in the trunk ,  cranial nccs also contribute to the developing peripheral nervous system ,  along with the pigmented cell  ( i .e .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
portion of tissue composed of mesenchymal cells  ( motile cells that develop from epthelia via an epithelial to mesenchymal transition )  and surrounding extracellular material .
anatomical cluster that forms the floor and sidewalls of the middle part of the cranium .
anatomical cluster that is located in the anterior region of the cranium and provides structural support for the olfactory organ .
subdivision of skeleton that includes all dermal bones in the cranial skeleton [ zfa , modified ]  .
the third branchial arch contributes to the development of the hyoid bone ,  stylopharyngeus muscle ,  inferior parathyroid gland ,  and thymus .
contributes to development of the cartilage of the larynx ,  laryngeal ,  pharyngeal ,  and soft palate muscles ,  superior parathyroid gland ,  and c - cells of the thymus
the 6th pharyngeal arch .contributes to the development of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles
the vessels formed within the first pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the second pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the third pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the fourth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the sixth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the outermost extraembryonic membrane
the trachea is the portion of the airway that attaches to the bronchi as it branches  [ go:dph ]  .
upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible  ( when present in the organism )  .
anatomical structure that is part of the head consisting entirely of cranium and mandible [ wp ]  .
an organ involved in reproduction
a female organ involved in reproduction
a male organ involved in reproduction
any sense organ that functions in  ( some )  detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of taste  ( go:0050912 )  .
a sac - like structure that is found in the mature gland [ go ]  .
organ part that has the form of a hollow cavity [ wp ]  .
anterior portion of the palate consisting of bone and mucous membranes [ go ]  .
septum that divides the ovary ,  the basal portion of a carpel or group of fused carpels ,  that encloses the ovule ( s )  [ go ]  .
one of the two embryological structures that give rise to the kidney  ( the other is the ureteric bud )  .
endochondral bones that are often elongate and arranged in rows of articulating elements ,  and form the visible part of the digits .
an epithelium that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a upper jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial layer of the luminal surfaces of the mammary gland
an epithelium that is part of a endolymphatic sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a footplate .
an epithelium that is part of a otic placode  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all ribs in an organism connected to the sternum and the vertebrae .
the neck of the rib is the flattened portion which extends lateralward from the head ;  it is about 2 .5 cm .
the portion of the yolk sac that is derived from endoderm and lines the yolk sac .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a thyroid primordium .
a mesenchyme that is part of a amnion .
a mesenchyme that is part of a chorion .
a calcareous tooth that is part of the upper jaw region .
a calcareous tooth that is part of the lower jaw region .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the upper part of the mouth .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the lower part of the mouth .
an endothelium that is part of a trachea .
an endothelium that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the portion of the primitive mesentery that encloses the stomach ;  from its dorsal sheet ,  the greater omentum develops ,  and from its ventral sheet ,  the lesser omentum .
a mesentery that surrounds the heart .
a mesentery that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
racemose mucous glands beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
any gland that is part of the diencephalon .
a gland that is part of a integumental system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mesencephalic roof plate ,  including the caudal and rostral part of the midbrain roof
a roof plate that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a roof plate that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a roof plate that is part of a metencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a roof plate that is part of a medulla oblongata  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood island that is part of a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing testis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing ovary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the portion of the yolk sac that is derived from mesoderm and consists of mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme of the carpal region that contributes to the carpal skeleton .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing upper jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pinna  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing mammary gland .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a footplate .
a submucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the rectum .
a submucosa that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the pns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
a ganglion that is part of a central nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
an epithelium that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a midgut .
an epithelium that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a soft palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a submandibular gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a parotid gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a sublingual gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a endolymphatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a uterine horn  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hard palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pelvic appendage bud .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pectoral appendage bud .
an ectoderm that is part of a footplate .
a extraembryonic structure that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a chorion .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pericardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a diaphragm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pleural cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a urinary system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lobar bronchus that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lobar bronchus that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage element that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the mucous ,  serous ,  or mixed glands that empty their secretions onto the surface of the tongue .
a gland that is part of a oropharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing mandible  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing soft palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing submandibular gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing parotid gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing sublingual gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gelatinous substance within the umbilical cord ,  largely made up of mucopolysaccharides  ( hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate )  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hard palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymph node that is located in a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an adipose tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the encapsulated adipose tissue in the abdomen .
the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the ovaries or testes .
a nerve that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that innervates an eyelid .
any nerve that innervates the iris .
a nerve that is part of the trunk region of the body  ( not to be confused with a nerve trunk )  .
a nerve that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is located in a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a loop of henle that is part of a inner medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the region of the forelimb that includes the zeugopod and stylopod .
a bone that is connected via a shoulder joint  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a facial skeleton  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb region .
a bone that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ureteral branches of renal artery are small branches which supply the ureter .
an artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the superior labial artery  ( superior labial branch of facial artery )  is larger and more tortuous than the inferior labial artery .
the iinferior labial artery  ( inferior labial branch of facial artery )  arises near the angle of the mouth ;  it passes upward and forward beneath the triangularis and ,  penetrating the orbicularis oris ,  runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane .
an artery that supplies blood to the cerebellum .
an artery that is part of a thoracic cavity [ cjm ]  .
one of the arteries supplying a meninix [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the upper lip .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the lower lip .
a vein that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a clitoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of lymphoid tissue that is part of a thymus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a sebaceous gland that is part of a camera - type eye .
a sebaceous gland that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a holocrine gland of the dermis that secretes sebum into hair follicles .
a lactiferous gland that is part of the abdominal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a venule that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arteriole that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a cornea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trachea .
a blood vessel that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of the arterial system .
a blood vessel that is part of a eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an lymphatic vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an alveolar duct that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an alveolar duct that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a respiratory bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a respiratory bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the regions of the brain that are largely or entirely composed of myelinated nerve cell axons and contain few or no neural cell bodies or dendrites .
a meninx that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the fibrous membrane forming the innermost of the three coverings that surrounds the brain within the cranial cavity that is firmly attached to the glial capsule .
a pia mater that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a forebrain .
a dura mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trachea .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the fibrous supportive tissue of the mammary gland .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lobar bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hand  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ring - shaped cartilaginous structures that support the trachea
a skin gland that is part of a camera - type eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense connective tissue which contains predominantly elastic fibers and is found in the tunica media of the aorta wall .
the type of heart connective tissue found in the endocardial layer that consists mainly of elastic fibers .
an elastic tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a circulatory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
elastic tissue layer that lines a blood vessel layer .
elastic tissue that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the middle layer of the aorta wall ,  containing the smooth muscle layer and elastic fibers .
the innermost layer of the aorta ,  containing the endothelium and an inner elastic membrane .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
5th digit of the manus .
1st digit of the hind autopod .
5th digit of the hind autopod .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
a bone that is part of a mesopodial skeleton .
any joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that attaches to an eyelid .
any muscle organ that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that attaches to a tail vertebra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a small fluid - filled sac lined by synovial membrane with an inner capillary layer of slimy fluid .
a collection of teeth arranged in some pattern in the mouth or other part of the body .
the ventral area of the mouth .
the muscles of the palate are the glossopalatine ,  palatoglossus ,  levator palati ( ni )  ,  musculus uvulae ,  palatopharyngeus ,  and tensor palati ( ni )  .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdomen proper  ( excluding the pelvic cavity )  .
fibrous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the skull are connected by sutural ligaments  ( scant amount of collagenous dense connective tissue )  .
in anatomy ,  in the occipital bone ,  the foramen magnum is one of the several oval or circular apertures in the base of the skull ,  through which the medulla oblongata  ( an extension of the spinal cord )  enters and exits the skull vault .
a fold of peritoneum originating at the stomach and supporting the viscera .
the sella turcica is a saddle - shaped depression in the sphenoid bone at the base of the human skull .
a collection of sacral vertebrae in the sacral region that are fused and part of the bony pelvis .
the outermost part of the spinal canal .
anatomical space in the abdominal cavity behind  ( retro )  the peritoneum .
the metacarpophalangeal joints  ( mcp )  are of the condyloid kind ,  formed by the reception of the rounded heads of the metacarpal bones into shallow cavities on the proximal ends of the first phalanges ,  with the exception of that of the thumb ,  which presents more of the characters of a ginglymoid joint .
the metatarsophalangeal articulations are the joints between the metatarsal bones of the foot and the proximal bones of the toes  .
the tissues that surround the organs that are present within the abdominal cavity .
the achilles tendon is a tendon of the posterior leg .
passages external to the liver for the conveyance of bile .
passages within the liver for the conveyance of bile .
a small bulge in the small intestine present at birth .
either of two pairs of folds of mucous membrane projecting into the larynx .
one of the anatomic dilations of the ascending aorta ,  which occurs just above the aortic valve .
a circle of arteries that supply blood to the brain .
the left and right brachiocephalic veins in the upper chest are formed by the union of each corresponding internal jugular vein and subclavian vein .
the cavernous sinus  ( or lateral sellar compartment )  ,  within the human head ,  is a large collection of thin - walled veins creating a cavity bordered by the temporal bone of the skull and the sphenoid bone ,  lateral to the sella turcica .
a vein arising from the splenic trabecular vein in the hilum of the spleen that drains into the portal vein .
portion of tissue in the nervous system which consists of neurons and glial cells ,  and may also contain parts of the vasculature .
the major nerves supplying sympathetic innervation to the abdomen ,  including the greater ,  lesser ,  and lowest  ( or smallest )  splanchnic nerves that are formed by preganglionic fibers from the spinal cord which pass through the paravertebral ganglia and then to the celiac ganglia and plexuses and the lumbar splanchnic nerves carry fibers which pass through the lumbar paravertebral ganglia to the mesenteric and hypogastric ganglia .
a branch of the vagus nerve that supplies motor function and sensation to the larynx  ( voice box )  .
the floor of the anterior fossa is formed by the orbital plates of the frontal ,  the cribriform plate of the ethmoid ,  and the small wings and front part of the body of the sphenoid ;  it is limited behind by the posterior borders of the small wings of the sphenoid and by the anterior margin of the chiasmatic groove .
the lingual nerve is a branch of the mandibular nerve  ( cn v3 )  ,  itself a branch of the trigeminal nerve ,  which supplies sensory innervation to the tongue .
the compartment containing the anterior extremities and half the inferior surface of the temporal lobes  ( temporal lobe )  of the cerebral hemispheres .
the vestibular nerve is one of the two branches of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( the cochlear nerve being the other )  .
a large branch of the brachial plexus supplying various parts of the upper arm  ( as flexor muscles )  and forearm  ( as the skin )  .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine that travels to the head and neck where it innervates skin and muscle .
the twelve spinal nerves on each side of the thorax .
the intercostal nerves are the anterior divisions  ( rami anteriores ;  ventral divisions )  of the thoracic spinal nerves from t1 to t11 .
the central part of the thoracic cavity enclosed by the left and right pleurae .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
a region of the fetal urogenital sinus epithelium destined to become the prostate [ go ]  .
a bone of the metapodial skeleton
the part of the forelimb between pectoral region and the elbow ,  corresponding to the humerus .
the middle limb segment of the pelvic free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
a nerve that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle tissue that is part of the urethra .
any muscle organ that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skin of body that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of an autopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a neural tube .
epithelium that is part of a developing tooth or dental organ .
an epithelium that is part of an upper eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a thymus ,  forming a supporting framework [ mp , modified ]  .
a artery that supplies a thyroid gland .
in medicine ,  gonadal vein refers to the blood vessel that carrying blood away from the gonad  ( testis ,  ovary )  toward the heart .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a midbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a telencephalon .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a diencephalon .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a hindbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a spinal cord .
a neural plate that develops_from a future spinal cord .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing gonad  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme enclosed by a dental organ that gives rise to an odontogenic papilla .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing upper eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a ganglion .
a mesentery that is part of a uterus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical cavity that has the potential to develop into a coelemic cavity lumen .
the part of the coelom in the embryo between the somatopleuric and splanchnopleuric mesoderm ;  the principal body cavities of the trunk  ( thoracic ,  abdominal ,  and pelvic )  arise from this embryonic part of the coelom
initial section of the oviduct through which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus
paired ducts of the embryo that run down the lateral sides of the urogenital ridge and terminate at the mullerian eminence in the primitive urogenital sinus .
connective ,  non - functional supportive framework of a biological cell ,  tissue ,  or organ .
a cover or envelope partly or wholly surrounding a structure .
a small endodermal thickening in the foregut adjacent to the transverse septum .
one of the skeletal muscles of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue in the trunk .
the part of the retina that contains neurons and photoreceptor cells [ go ]  .
small blood vessel similar to a capillary but with a fenestrated endothelium .
wide vessels in the spleen that drain into trabecular veins [ wp ]  .
the epithelial component of the choroid plexus .
hard bony ,  calcareous ,  or chitinous organ found in the mouth or pharynx of an animal and used in procuring or masticating food .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues ,  with tube shape and organization varying from the single - celled excretory organ in caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system .
any endothelium that has the quality of being cylindrical  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mass of closely packed fat cells  ( adipose tissue )  surrounded by fibrous tissue septa [ tmd ]  .
kidney mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the kidney [ go ]  .
a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart
embryonic structure that develops into pancreatic bud .
the embryonic pancreas develops from two separate anlagen in the foregut epithelium ,  one dorsal and two ventral pancreatic buds [ pmid ]  .
pancreatic bud that gives rise to the accessory pancreatic duct .
pancreatic bud that gives rise to the major pancreatic duct .
a duct that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines the lumen of the digestive tract .
white matter that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage element of chondrocranium .
a cartilage element that is part of the cranial skeleton .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction .
the sensory system for the sense of touch and pain .
the brain ventricles or their associated choroid plexuses
the anterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea
the posterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea
a transparent ,  nearly structureless innermost layer of the choroid in contact with the pigmented layer of the retina .
an anastomosing network of delicate tubules located in the hilum of the testicle  ( mediastinum testis )  that carries sperm from the seminiferous tubules to the vasa efferentia [ wp ]  .
the ganglion that supplies nerve fibers to the parotid gland
the slender connective tissue fiber in the extracellular matrix of skin tissue that is composed of microfibrils and amorphous elastin and is characterized by great elasticity
the lymph nodes located outside the thoracic and abdominal cavities ,  such as the submandibular ,  prescapular ,  axillary ,  inguinal and popliteal lymph nodes
the internal feminine genital organs ,  including the ovaries ,  uterine tubes ,  uterus ,  uterine cervix ,  and vagina .
one of a set of deep furrows which divide the lobules of the cerebellum .
a conical pouch formed from the upper and left angle of the right ventricle in the chordate heart ,  from which the pulmonary artery arises [ wp ]  .
the funnel - like expansion of the abdominal extremity of the uterine tube [ mp ] 
the dense region demarcating the thymus medulla from the surrounding cortex that is characterized by numerous blood vessels  ( predominantly arterioles )  with some perivascular connective tissue ,  mature and immature t lymphocytes ,  dendritic cells ,  variable numbers of perivascular b - lymphocytes and plasma cells ;  site of entry of bone marrow stem cells and exit of mature ,  functional t cells
a sac - like structure comprising a sebaceous gland .
the embryonic pseudostratified epithelium of the fourth cerebellar ventricle that eventually forms the vermis and ventral neuroepithelium
one of the folds of skin which form the inner lips on both sides of the vaginal opening
the connection between the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
the single layer of epithelial cells that lines the early neural tube and develops into the nervous system and into the neural crest cells
that portion of the chorionic wall in the region of its uterine attachment ,  which gives rise to chorionic villi ;  it consists of the mesoderm that lines the chorionic vesicle and ,  on the maternal side ,  of the trophoblast that lines the intervillous spaces ;  in the last half of gestation ,  the mesodermal connective tissue is largely replaced by fibrinoid material ,  and the amnionic membrane is adherent to the fetal side of the plate .
the transient outer neural tube region that contains the first generated post - mitotic neurons that receive synaptic input from thalamic axons and in turn project axons to the developing cortical plate
the region of the developing mammalian cortex that extends between the ventricular zone and the cortical plate  ( cp )  ;  normally ,  the iz is a region of tangential migration of cells ,  and at midgestation ,  the lower part of the iz develops into the subventricular zone
the external masculine genital organs ,  including the penis and scrotum
the internal masculine genital organs ,  including the testes ,  epididymides ,  deferent ducts ,  seminal vesicles ,  prostate ,  ejaculatory ducts ,  and bulbourethral glands
one of the fine terminal elements of the bile duct system ,  leaving the portal canal ,  and pursuing a course at the periphery of a lobule of the liver [ bto ]  .
the layer of undifferentiated ,  proliferating cells that line the neural tube lumen that is the immediate transformation of the germinal neuroepithelium
the layer of glia and differentiating neurons that forms as a second layer around the germinal neuroepithium ;  as this develops it comes to lie between the ventricular and marginal layers and includes the basal and alar plates .
the outermost layer of the neural tube that consists of axons from the developing mantle layer and will form the white matter
the region of the mantle layer of the neural tube that lies ventral to the sulcus limitans and contains primarily motor neurons and interneurons .
the unpaired embryonic prominence that is formed by the tissues surrounding the forebrain vesicle and develops into the forehead and bridge of the nose / snout .
the lateral area of the two branches of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling in the future nasal region of the embryo ;  it separates the olfactory pit from the developing eye and the ala of the nose / snout develops from it
the central area of the two limbs of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling that lie medial to the olfactory placode or pit in the future nasal region of the embryo ;  it joins with the ipsilateral maxillary prominence in the formation of half of the upper jaw ,  and the nasal tip and philtrum of the upper lip develop from it
one of the folds of skin which form the inner lips  ( labia minora )  and outer lips  ( labia majora )  on both sides of the vaginal opening .
one of the folds of skin which form the outer lips on both sides of the vaginal opening
one of the system of communicating cavities in the brain that are continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord ,  that like it are derived from the medullary canal of the embryo ,  that are lined with an epithelial ependyma ,  and that contain a serous fluid
any of the veins that carries deoxygenated blood from a part of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
the subdivision of the face that includes the eye  ( eyeball plus adnexa such as eyelids )  and the orbit of the skull and associated parts of the face such as the eyebrows ,  if present
the middle of the face including the nose and its associated bony structures [ mw ]  .
joint cavity shared by all the joints of the elbow .
one of the two jaw ridges either on the roof of the mouth between the upper teeth and the hard palate or on the bottom of the mouth behind the lower teeth [ wp ]  .
region beneath a nail or claw .
part of the cranium ,  the clivus is a shallow depression behind the dorsum sellc& that slopes obliquely backward .
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
a muscle of the tympanic cavity that attaches to an auditory ossicle .
small cavity surrounding the bones of the middle ear .
a blood vessel that is part of a tympanic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a tympanic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an internal pocketing of pharyngeal endoderm that contacts a region of ectoderm  ( a pharyngeal cleft )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions with the pharyngeal arches .
a vasculature that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine and those concerned with reproduction .
any of the layers of the myocardium .
the layer of the myocardium composed of projections of contractile myocytes .
a myocardium trabecular layer that is part of a cardiac ventricle .
the optic vesicle is the evagination of neurectoderm that precedes formation of the optic cup [ go ]  .
a cortical cell layer of the cerebellum .
in mammals ,  the proximal tubule is a nephron tubule that connects bowman's capsule to the loop of henle .
the distal tubule is a nephron tubule that consists of the distal convoluted tubule and distal straight tubule segments
the intermediate tubule is a nephron tubule that lies between the proximal and distal tubules
the first recognizable structure derived from the heart field
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the primary beating heart tube .
an epithelial tube that will give rise to the mature heart .
the outflow tract septum is a partition in the outflow tract
the outflow tract is the portion of the heart through which blood flows into the arteries
the his - purkinje system receives signals from the av node and is composed of the fibers that regulate cardiac muscle contraction in the ventricles
vein of heart that drains the myocardium
a cardiac chamber surrounds an enclosed cavity within the heart
an embryonic group of progenitor cells that forms from an outpouching of the septum transversum near the venous pole of the heart and gives rise to the epicardium
a thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo ,  forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions .
the internal genitalia are the internal sex organs such as the uterine tube ,  the uterus and the vagina in female mammals ,  and the testis ,  seminal vesicle ,  ejaculatory duct and prostate in male mammals
the external genitalia are the outer sex organs ,  such as the penis or vulva in mammals
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue located in the wall of the aorta
the mammary fat is an adipose structure in the gland that is invaded by the mammary ducts
the solid cord of epithelial cells that emerges from the mammary bud and grows down from the primary mammary mesenchyme and into a second stromal compartment ,  the fat pad precursor ,  beneath the dermis .
the prostate gland stroma is made up of the mesenchymal or fibroblast cells of the prostate gland
a portions of the gut that is derived from endoderm .
the glomerular epithelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the outer surfaces of the glomerulus .
the glomerular endothelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the internal surfaces of the glomerulus
the glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the glomerulus
the comma - shaped body is the precursor structure to the s - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of the nephron
the s - shaped body is the successor of the comma - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of the nephron
kidney pyramids are the conical arrangements of tubules that constitute the renal medulla in a multi - lobed mammalian kidney ;  they contain the loops of henle and the medullary collecting ducts .
the outer stripe is the region of the kidney that lies distal to the line of termination of the straight renal tubules
the cortical collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex
the outer medullary collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that lies in the renal outer medulla
the inner medullary collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that lies in the renal inner medulla
nephrogenic mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the nephron
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells .
the nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron
the small branching blood vessels in the kidney glomerulus that receives blood from the kidney afferent arterioles ;  these capillaries are under high pressure for filtering within the glomerulus
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the urothelium of the kidney pelvis
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a trigone of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lymphatic vessel  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a mammary gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a spleen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the dorsal region of an animal .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb digit .
a bone that is part of a forelimb digit .
a bone that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  ( upper leg )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb zeugopod  ( lower arm )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb stylopod  ( upper arm )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod  ( lower leg )   [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pericardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cranial suture that is part of a cartilaginous joint  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a lateral ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a third ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a fourth ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is part of the eye region .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a cone - like structure that is formed when myocardial progenitor cells of the heart field fuse at the midline .
dense connective tissue that separates the atria from the ventricles and provides physical support for the heart .
a nerve that is part of a parasympathetic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a glomerular capillary .
a lymphatic vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
distal - most phalanx within a digit .
a phalanx located between proximal and distal phalanges .
proximal - most phalanx within a digit .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a membranous sac that develops from the posterior part of the alimentary canal in the embryos of mammals ,  birds ,  and reptiles ,  and it is important in the formation of the umbilical cord and placenta in mammals [ vhog ]  .
the primitive streak is a structure that forms during the early stages of avian ,  reptilian and mammalian embryonic development [ wp ]  .
outermost layer of cells in the blastodermic vesicle ,  which will develop into the trophoblast layer and then contact the endometrium and take part in establishing the embryo's means of nutrition
embryonic structures which begin as undifferentiated mesenchyme attaching to the caudal end of the gonads .
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb .
the embryonic structure that gives rise to the corneal ectoderm
multilayered ectodermal region at the distal tip of a limb or fin bud necessary for the proper development of the underlying mesenchyme [ mp , modified ]  .
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb or paired fin .
the first of the series of pharyngeal arches that develop into jaw bones or their homologs ,  and their associated nerves and arteries
one of a series of paired embryological vascular structures formed within a pharyngeal arch ;  in the adult ,  some of these vessels give rise to the great vessels [ mp ] 
blood vessel that is connected to the yolk sac .
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer found between the substantia propria and the endothelial layer of the cornea [ mp ]  .
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer ,  6 to 9 um thick ,  lying between the basal lamina of the outer layer of stratified epithelium and the substantia propria of the cornea ;  it is considered to be a basement membrane .
vascular network that is connected to the yolk sac .
a bone that is part of an appendage  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a fin  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metaphysis that is in the distal side of a diaphysis .
a metaphysis that is in the proximal side of a diaphysis .
an epiphysis that is on the distal side of the bone .
an epiphysis that is on the proximal side of the bone .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb .
an epiphysis that is part of a humerus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a tibia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a radius  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of an ulna  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a fibula  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a distal epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a proximal epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a periosteum that is part of a epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a humerus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a tibia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a radius  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a ulna  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a fibula  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper extremity of the humerus  ( proximal humerus )  consists of a large rounded head joined to the body by a constricted portion called the neck ,  and two eminences ,  the greater and lesser tubercles .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a radius  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 1 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 5 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manual digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of three main pairs of arteries and their branches ,  which irrigate the cerebrum of the brain .
a vertebra in the trunk or cervical region .
a mesopodium that is part of a manus .
a metapodium region that is part of a manus .
mesopodial segment of the pes ,  including the tarsal skeleton and associated tissues .
an embryo at the neurula stage .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
any collection of skeletal muscles that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a body wall  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  ( upper leg  /  thigh )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a lower leg or upper leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the musculature of the body in the pectoral girdle region .
any collection of muscles that is part of a face .
any collection of muscles that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the collection of muscles that form attachments to the hip skeleton .
the collection of muscles that form attachments to the shoulder skeleton .
the collection of muscles that are part of the larynx .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a interatrial septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a cardiac septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a myocardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a diaphragm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a biceps brachii  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a levator palpebrae superioris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a terminal bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is attached to a vertebra of the vertebral column .
a portion of striated muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thickened ridge of bone that contains the tooth sockets on the maxilla .
the thickened ridge of bone that contains the tooth sockets on the mandible .
a projection or outgrowth of tissue from a larger body or organ .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone tissue .
a testis that is in the left side of the genitalia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a testis that is in the right side of the genitalia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
a network of blunt ended vessels lacking direct connection to the blood vascular system .
a vascular network consisting of blood vessels .
a kidney that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a kidney that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the layer of secretory cells which lines the epididymis
an eye that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thick circular layer of smooth gastric musculature encircling the gastroesophageal junction that functions to reduce backflow into the esophagus from the stomach
an artery that is part of a digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a digital artery that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a digital artery that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the arterial system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all arteries .
an artery of the systemic circulation ,  which is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart ,  to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the venous system that drains the general body tissues [ kardong ] 
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all venous vessels .
a structure ,  usually a circular muscle ,  that normally maintains constriction of a natural body passage or orifice and which relaxes as required by normal physiological functioning .
the capsule surrounding the inner ear mechanism .
an endothelium that lines the blood vasculature .
the connective tissue that surrounds the spleen
an ependyma that is part of a third ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ependyma that is part of a lateral ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ependyma that is part of a fourth ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial lining of the luminal space of the urinary bladder .
the polygonal structure of the liver that consists of hepatocytes radiating outward from a hepatic vein
a keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
the body or shaft of the humerus is almost cylindrical in the upper half of its extent ,  prismatic and flattened below ,  and has three borders and three surfaces .
an anatomical wall that is part of an aorta ,  enclosing the luminal space .
the outermost layer of the aorta wall ,  containing connective tissue and collagen and elastic fibers
a muscular coat that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the membranous portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
the muscular portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
one of: the 4th ventricle median or lateral apertures .
the thin epithelium - like membrane composed of ependymal cells that lines the ventricular system of the brain and the spinal cord .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a trigeminal nerve .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a facial nerve .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a hypoglossal nerve .
the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus that is bounded by the pial surface superficially and the dentate gyrus granule cell layer deep .
the sensory system for the sense of balance .
the raphe nuclei are thin plates of cells in and immediately adjacent to the sagittal plane .
the costocervical trunk arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery ,  behind the scalenus anterior on the right side ,  and medial to that muscle on the left side .
a bodily secretion that is produced by a bulbourethral gland .
an epithelium that is part of an external naris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vena cava  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a depression or hollow in a bone [ wp ]  .
a transient fetal dilation of the distal  ( or cranial )  heart tube located where the arterial trunk joins the ventral roots of the aortic arches
a stage that follows the blastula ,  gastrula and neurula stages .
an appendage that is part of an appendage girdle complex .
paired appendage that consists of the posterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pelvic girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
paired appendage that consists of the anterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pectoral girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
the jugular veins are veins that bring deoxygenated blood from the head back to the heart via the superior vena cava .
the ring of fibrocartilage and fibrous tissue forming the circumference of the intervertebral disc ;  surrounds the nucleus pulposus ,  which is prone to herniation when the annulus fibrosus is compromised .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
a subregion of the cerebellar cortex ,  consisting of the most medial zone of the cerebellar cortex ,  stradding the midline .
a nerve in the head that carries signals from the cochlea of the inner ear to the brain .
a transverse unitary subdivision of the neural tube that shares a common dorsoventral structure  ( floor ,  basal ,  alar ,  and roof plates )  ,  but each having differential molecular identities and fates ;  they comprise the secondary prosencephalon ,  diencephalon  ( prosomeres )  ,  the midbrain  ( mesomeres )  ,  and the hindbrain  ( rhombomeres )  .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
an organ subunit that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism at the gastrula stage .
glomerulus of the mature vertebrate kidney ,  or metanephros .
a collecting duct of renal tubule that is part of a metanephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the glomus forms from the splanchnic intermediate mesoderm and is the vascularized filtration unit ,  filtering the blood before it enters the tubules .
the dentary is a dermal bone that forms the antero - lateral part of the lower jaw in fishes and amphibians ,  extending to the whole lower jaw in mammals [ vhog , modified ]  .
skeletal element that consists of the scapula and the coracoid [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
a specialized form of connective tissue in which the extracellular matrix is firm ,  providing the tissue with resilience ,  and / or mineralized and that functions in mechanical and structural support .
dermis - derived entity that is made of skeletal tissue .
a gland that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the primitive cartilagionous skeletal structure of the fetal skull that grows to envelop the rapidly growing embyonic brain .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
a bone that is part of a cranium .
any bone that is part of the lower jaw skeleton .
subdivision of long bone which forms the part of the bone between the two epiphyses ,  excluding the metaphyses [ fma , modified ]  .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
opening / conduit between the nasal cavity and the nasopharynx [ aao ]  the choanae are separated by the vomer [ wp ]  .
the tarsi  ( tarsal plates )  are two comparatively thick ,  elongated plates of dense connective tissue ,  about 2 .5 cm .
an eyelid tarsus that is part of a upper eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eyelid tarsus that is part of a lower eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
a lamina propria that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a cardiac ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract
a mucosa that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
an urothelium that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial lining of the luminal space of the kidney pelvis
a mucous gland that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucous gland that is part of the skin .
the thymic connective tissue which extends into the parenchyma
a secretion that is part of a endocrine pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a exocrine pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bodily secretion that is produced by the prostate gland .
any of the tissue layers that comprise a blood vessel .
an epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi
an epithelium that is part of a penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a oviduct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a salivary gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the renal tubule luminar surfaces
an epithelium that is part of an endometrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a prepuce of penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the stratified epithelial lining of the seminiferous tubules ,  consisting of the developing spermatozoa and the supporting sertoli cells ,  which are tall ,  columnar type cells that line the tubule
an epithelium that is part of a upper respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lacrimal gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the kidney luminar surfaces
any epithelium that lines one of the bile ducts .
the epithelial layer of the alveoli [ mp ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a extrahepatic bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a intrahepatic bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a medulla that is part of a thyroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle tissue in all or part of a hepatic duct .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a epididymis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a lymph node  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thin layer of flat cells that line the aorta and form a barrier between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall
an endothelium that is part of the cardiovascular system .
a mesentery that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a connective tissue that surrounds a skeletal muscle tissue .
a gland that is part of a eye .
an alveolus that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an alveolus that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical cavity bounded by the orbital region of the cranium and forming the location of some or all of the eye .
a part of the epithalamus present in some animal species .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the future body wall  -  underlies the ectoderm [ wp ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the inner  ( or splanchnic )  layer adheres to the endoderm ,  and with it forms the splanchnopleure [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the outer  ( or somatic )  layer becomes applied to the inner surface of the ectoderm ,  and with it forms the somatopleure .
a portion of the urogenital ridge which is the source of much of the urinary system [ wp ]  .
one of of the pair of folds derived from the cloacal folds which give rise to a portion of the external genitalia ;  in male embryos they close over the urethral plate and fuse to form the spongy  ( penile )  urethra and ventral aspect of the penis ,  not including the glans ;  failure of fusion of the urethral folds leads to hypospadias ;  in female embryos they fuse only anterior to the anus and form the labia minora [ mp ]  .
the central region of trunk mesoderm .
the mass of tissue made up of mesenchymal cells in the lung .
the mass of tissue composed of mesenchymal cells in the lobar bronchus . .
an anatomical cavity ,  depression or pit where structures are attached .
a depression on the surface of the lung where the bronchus ,  blood vessels and nerves enter .
a lung hilus that is part of the left lung .
a lung hilus that is part of the right lung .
vasculature that is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs
a the thin septum that separates adjacent pulmonary alveoli ,  containing connective tissue constituents of the respiratory tissue and the capillary network of the blood supply of the lung .
a wall that contains the alveoli
alveolar smooth muscle is a type of non - striated muscle ,  found within the walls of the alveolus
the right lung lobar bronchus mesenchyme is a type of tissue made up of loosely - packed mesenchymal cells in the right lung lobar bronchus
the fetal urogenital sinus  ( from which the prostate derives )  is a simple cylinder of stratified basal epithelium ,  surrounded by mesenchyme and positioned between the embryonic bladder and pelvic urethra
a neuron projection bundle that connects the retina or its analog in the eye with the brain .
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the beginning of the intestines to the anus [ go  -  gut definition ]  .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the mouth cavity through pharynx esophagus stomach and duodenum .
an epithelium surrounding a gonad .
an epithelium surrounding a testis .
an epithelium surrounding an ovary .
a dilation of the duodenal papilla that is the opening of the juncture of the common bile duct and the main pancreatic duct .
one of the two small elevations on the mucosa of the duodenum ,  the major at the entrance of the conjoined pancreatic and common bile ducts and the minor at the entrance of the accessory pancreatic duct .
muscular valve that controls the flow of digestive juices  ( bile and pancreatic juice )  through the ampulla of vater into the second part of the duodenum .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a anal region .
a sphincter muscle surrounding the urethra .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the pharynx .
a submucosa that is part of a hypopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a cystic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a cecum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of an appendix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of an ascending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a transverse colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a descending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a fundus of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a body of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a cardia of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a pyloric antrum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a pylorus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a biliary tree  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a common bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a common hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a right hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a left hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the urinary bladder .
a submucosa that is part of a trigone of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a ileum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a right main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a left main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a lobar bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a segmental bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a epiglottis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ejaculatory duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a hypopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a cystic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an appendix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an ascending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a transverse colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a descending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a fundus of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a body of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a cardia of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pyloric antrum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pylorus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a biliary tree  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a common bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a common hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a renal pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a trigone of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a male urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a female urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a prostatic urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lacrimal sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a sphenoidal sinus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oropharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a soft palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a uvula  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a middle ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a frontal sinus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a maxillary sinus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lacrimal canaliculus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that adjacent_to a paranasal sinus .
a mucosa that is part of a upper lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lower lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lobar bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a segmental bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a terminal bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of the tympanic cavity epithelium which makes up the outer  ( cuticular )  layer of the tympanic membrane
a mucosa that is part of a nasolacrimal duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pharyngotympanic tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ethmoid sinus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a hard palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vocal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mediastinum testis is a network of fibrous connective tissue that extends from the upper to near the lower extremity of the testis ,  and is wider above than below .
an organ part that is part of a long bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external genitalia that is part of a female reproductive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organ that is part of a immune system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a hemolymphoid system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a forebrain and adjacent_to a midbrain .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a hindbrain and adjacent_to a spinal cord .
the portion of the ureteric bud tube that contributes to the morphogenesis of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the portion of the ureteric bud that contributes to the morphogenesis of the ureter .
a hole in a tube [ go ]  .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
a bud - like thickening in the epidermis consisting of elongated keratinocytes ,  which at the distal end are in touch with numerous aggregated specialized dermal fibroblasts ,  the dermal condensate .
an tooth placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the tooth bud [ go ]  .
a sebaceous gland placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the sebaceous gland bud [ go ]  .
an sweat gland placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the sweat gland bud [ go ]  .
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
the descending thin limb is a part of the loop of henle situated just after the proximal straight tubule  ( s3 )  .
an epithelium that is part of a mesonephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metanephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
an epithelium is a tissue that covers the internal or external surfaces of an anatomical structure [ go ]  .
any smooth muscle tissue that is part of a metanephros .
a metanephric nephron is the functional unit of the metanephros [ go ]  .
metanephric pyramids are the conical masses that constitute the renal medulla in a metanephros ;  they contain the loops of henle and the medullary collecting ducts [ go ]  .
the metanephric cortical collecting duct is the portion of the metanephric collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex [ go ]  .
it extends to the tip of the metanephric loop of henle [ go ]  .
the metanephric distal convoluted tubule is a portion of the metanephric nephron tubule that connects the metanephric loop of henle to the collecting duct [ go ]  .
the metanephric proximal convoluted tubule is the most proximal portion of the metanephric proximal tubule and extends from the metanephric glomerular capsule to the metanephric proximal straight tubule [ go ]  .
the metanephric proximal straight tubule is the part of the metanephric descending limb that extends from the metanephric proximal convoluted tubule to the metanephric descending thin tubule [ go ]  .
the metanephric distal tubule is a metanephric nephron tubule that begins at the metanephric macula densa and extends to the metanephric connecting tubule [ go ]  .
the metanephric loop of henle is a metanephric nephron tubule that connects the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the metanephric glomerulus [ go ]  .
the metanephric nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
a metanephric glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized epithelial cell that contains 'feet' that interdigitate with the 'feet' of other glomerular epithelial cells in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric glomerular endothelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the internal surfaces of the glomerulus of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the metanephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
this process pertains to the initial formation of a structure from unspecified parts [ go ]  .
the metanephric comma - shaped body is the precursor structure to the metanephric s - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
a metanephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephric nephron ,  the functional part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the metanephric nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells [ go ]  .
the metanephric s - shaped body is the successor of the metanephric comma - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric proximal tubule is a metanephric nephron tubule that connects bowman's capsule to the descending thin limb of the loop of henle in the metanephros .
a bud is a protrusion that forms from an epithelial sheet by localized folding .
a cord of epithelial cells without a lumen and usually several cells thick .
any anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
the functional tissue of the central nervous system consisting of neurons and glial cells .
a remnant structure from earlier development or evolution .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
connective tissue between the cellular elements of a structure .
any portion of the ducts that carry bile from the liver to the common bile duct .
an organ or element that is in the abdomen .
an organ or element that is part of the adbominal segment of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the dorsum of the organism .
an organ that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a circumscribed mass of ectodermal cells which bud off from the dental lamina ;  it becomes cup - shaped and develops on its internal face the ameloblast layer of cells that produces the enamel cap of a developing tooth .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ or element that is part of the pelvic region .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
innermost layer of the hair shaft .
the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal medulla
an artery in males that provides blood to the vas deferens .
a vein that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mammary gland that is part of a cervical region .
a lactiferous gland that is located in the thoracic region / breast .
a gland that is part of a larynx submucosa  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
stromal matrix surrounding blood vessels within the choroid plexus .
a capsule that is part of a tonsil  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a valve that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
tissue surrounding the loop of henle in the renal medulla .
the male gonad containing two functional parts: the seminiferous tubules for the production and transport of male germ cells  ( spermatogenesis )  and the interstitial compartment containing leydig cells that produce androgens . .
a portion of interstitial tissue that is part of a outer medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of interstitial tissue that is part of a inner medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the interstitial compartment of the kidney ,  comprising the extravascular intertubular spaces of the renal parenchyma ,  with their attendant cellular elements and extracellular substances ,  bounded on all sides by epithelial and vascular basement membranes .
an external ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a right lobe of liver  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a left lobe of liver  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a medial nasal prominence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a small ,  oval ,  bony chamber of the labyrinth .
an endocardium that is part of a interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a bulbus cordis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a renal pelvis that is part of a metanephros .
a gland that is part of a stomodeum .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a yolk sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery that supplies the renal cortex .
artery that receives blood from the renal cortex [ mp ,  modified ] 
a compartment of the renal cortex situated between basement membranes of epithelia and vessels that contains two contiguous cellular networks in mutual contact ,  one formed by interstitial fibroblasts ,  the other by dendritic cells .
a dorsal skin of digit that is part of a manual digit .
a dorsal skin of digit that is part of a pedal digit .
a set of structures containing cerebrospinal fluid in the brain .
a structure found in the walls of the ventricles of the brain ,  consisting of part of the meninges  ( pia mater in mammals )  plus ependyma [ cjm ]  .
tela chorioidea that lines the fourth ventricle [ zfa ]  .
tela chorioidea that lines the third ventricle [ zfa ]  .
tela chorioidea that lines the telencephalic ventricle .
the posterior part of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the medulla oblongata and a portion of the fourth ventricle ;  as well as the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cn ix )  ,  vagus nerve  ( cn x )  ,  accessory nerve  ( cn xi )  ,  hypoglossal nerve  ( cn xii )  ,  and a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cn viii )  .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
the elevation of thickened mesothelium and underlying mesenchyme found on the ventromedial border of the embryonic mesonephros in which the primordial germ cells become embedded ,  establishing it as the primordium of the testis or ovary
cordlike masses of epithelial tissue that invaginate from germinal epithelium of the gonad and give rise to seminiferous tubules and rete testes in the male ,  and primary ovarian follicles and rete ovarii in the female .
structures that develop from sex cords in the female .
the testis cords are precursors to the rete testis .
a zone of skin that is part of a clitoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the clitoral glans .
discrete ,  cystlike units of the thyroid gland that are lined with cuboidal epithelium and are filled with a colloid substance ,  about 30 to each lobule [ bto ]  .
a pronephric nephron is the functional unit of the pronephros [ go ]  .
the pronephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the pronephric nephron and connects the filtration unit  ( glomerulus or glomus )  of the pronephros to the pronephric duct [ go ]  .
the mammary placode is a transient lens shaped structure that will give rise to the mammary bud proper [ go ]  .
the endothelial lining of the endocardium .
an pulmonary artery endothelium is an epithelium that lines the pulmonary artery [ go ]  .
the collecting duct is the final common path through which urine flows before entering the ureter and then emptying into the bladder [ go ]  .
a nephron that is part of a mesonephros .
mesonephric mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric glomerulus is a capillary tuft which forms a close network with the visceral epithelium  ( podocytes )  and the mesangium to form the filtration barrier and is surrounded by bowman's capsule in nephrons of the mature vertebrate kidney ,  or mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the mesonephric glomerulus [ go ]  .
a mesonephric glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized epithelial cell that contains 'feet' that interdigitate with the 'feet' of other glomerular epithelial cells in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric comma - shaped body is the precursor structure to the mesonephric s - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the mesonephric nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells [ go ]  .
the mesonephric s - shaped body is the successor of the mesonephric comma - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
a bulb of epithelial cells that forms from the mammary placode that develops into the mammary gland .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of oral region .
a ventricular outflow tract is a portion of either the left ventricle or right ventricle of the heart through which blood passes in order to enter the great arteries .
an outflow tract that is part of a aorta .
a fiber tracts that connect the dorsal region of the two cerebral hemispheres and span the longitudinal fissure ,  including the corpus callosum and hippocampal commissure [ mp ]  .
the outer neural tube region in which post - mitotic neuroblasts migrate along radial glia to form the adult cortical layers [ mp ]  .
a peritoneal diverticulum in the embryonic lower anterior abdominal wall that traverses the inguinal canal .
the cord - like structure in males comprising the vas deferens and associated tissue that runs from the abdomen down to each testis [ mp ]  .
a pouch of ectoderm that grows out from the upper surface of the embryonic stomodeum and gives rise to the anterior and intermediate lobes of the pituitary gland [ mp ]  .
the ependymal cell layer that lines the brain ventricles
a layer in the central nervous system that lines system of communicating cavities in the brain and spinal cord .
the ependymal cell layer that lines the spinal cord
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the vagus nerve
the large group of sensory neuron cell bodies ,  anterior to the jugular vein ,  associated with the vagus nerve  ( tenth cranial nerve ) 
the lobe at the anterior part of each cerebral hemisphere ,  responsible for olfactory functions .
the area of white matter of the spinal cord located on either side of the ventral  ( anterior )  medial fissure
granule cell layer is also called the dg principal cell layer .
an epithelium that lines the nasal cavity .
that portion of the nasal mucosa containing the sensory endings for olfaction ;  the organ of smell [ mesh ]  .
an array of photoreceptors and any supporting cells found in an eye .
a transparent structure that is part of a visual sense organ ,  the function of which is to direct or focus light onto a photoreceptor array .
one of: the common carotid artery ,  or its branches ,  the external and internal carotid arteries .
an arachnoid mater that surrounds a brain .
a sex gland that is part of a female reproductive system .
a sex gland that is part of a male reproductive system .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a telencephalon .
a gray matter that is part of a cerebral hemisphere .
the adipose capsule of kidney  ( or perinephric fat or perirenal fat )  is a structure between the renal fascia and renal capsule ,  and may be regarded as a part of the latter .
the small parasympathetic ganglion found anterior to the submandibular gland that provides postsynaptic fibers to the sublingual gland
any of any of the secretory or sensory organs located in the brain region around or in relation to the ventricular system that are characterized by extensive vasculature and a lack of a normal blood brain barrier  ( bbb )  and allow for the linkage between the central nervous system and peripheral blood flow .
the part of the digestive system that excludes the hepatobiliary system .
a otic capsule endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the cartilage or bony capsule surrounding the inner ear mechanism
groove that is in the developing ventral optic cup and through which blood vessels pass to the enclosed mesenchyme [ zfa ]  .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb or pectoral fin .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb or pelvic fin .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
portion of tissue that is the outer layer of the optic cup and will become the retinal pigmented epithelium .
portion of tissue that is the inner layer of the optic cup and will become the neural retina .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
portion of tissue that is part of the eye and gives rise to the mature ,  fully layered cornea .
vagal neural crest is adjacent to the first seven somites gives rise to both ganglionic and ectomesenchymal derivatives [ zfa ]  .
a blood vessel that supplies the anterior portion of the spinal cord .
the dilated structure that is lined by endothelial cells and located at the arterial pole of the heart just above  ( distal to )  the truncus arteriosus in mammalian embryos ;  it is the primordial vascular channel from which the aortic arches  ( and eventually the dorsal aortae )  arise ;  the aortic sac is homologous to the ventral aorta of gill - bearing vertebrates
the conus medullaris is the terminal end of the spinal cord .
a segment of autopod that is part of a pes .
the foramen rotundum is a circular hole in the sphenoid bone that connects the middle cranial fossa and the pterygopalatine fossa .
the greater omentum  ( also the great omentum ,  omentum majus ,  gastrocolic omentum ,  epiplon ,  or ,  especially in animals ,  caul )  is a large fold of peritoneum that hangs down from the stomach ,  and extends from the stomach to the posterior abdominal wall after associating with the transverse colon .
a segment of autopod that is part of a manus .
the jugular foramen is a large aperture in the base of the skull .
a thymus lobe that is in the left side of a thymus .
a vitelline vein that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
an axial muscle that originates in the cervical vertebraae inserts on the scapula .
subdivision of abdominal segment of trunk which in humans is demarcated from the front of the abdomen by the posterior surface of the anterior layer of the thoracolumbar fascia and the anterior surface of the lumbar vertebral column ;  together with the front of the abdomen ,  it constitutes the abdomen [ modified from fma ]  .
a space between the capsule and the cortex which allows the free movement of lymphatic fluid and so contains a sparsity of lymphocytes .
a thymus lobe that is in the right side of a thymus .
a vitelline vein that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a subdivision of an organism along the anterior - posterior axis in the pelvic region immediately posterior to the lumbar region and anterior to the caudal region .
a portion of the lateral venous sinus ,  bulging prominently into the mastoid cavity ,  that serves as a principal conduit by which blood leaves the cranium [ epic ]  .
a simple columnar epithelium that is part of a fundus of stomach .
a longitudinal groove in the neural tube wall that divides the neural tube into dorsal  ( alar )  and ventral  ( basal )  halves  ( dorsal receives input from sensory neurons ,  ventral effects motor functions )  ;  stretches from the mesencephalon caudad [ tmd ]  .
either of the two lateral lobes that constitute the thymus .
a valve leaflet that is part of a tricuspid valve .
a venous channel found between layers of dura mater in the brain .
the paired veins that carry blood from the yolk sac back to the embryo
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the glossopharyngeal ganglion .
a blood vessel that is associated with the lens .
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
hindbrain segment or neuromere 1 .
a neural tube lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere .
a small outgrowth of the pharyngeal epithelium that is the site of lymphocyte cell production [ zfa ]  .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
cranial neural crest that gives rise to the facio - acoustic ganglion .
a rhombomere lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere 1 .
a rhombomere roof plate that is part of a rhombomere 1 .
somite located in the head region ,  caudal to the otic vesicle
a pair of lateral diverticula just over the liver rudiment representing the primordia of the lungs ,  formed by the floor of the foregut just anterior to the liver diverticulum .
a somite that is part of a trunk .
the portion of mesentery attached to the greater curvature of the stomach is named the dorsal mesentery  ( or dorsal mesogastrium ,  when referring to the portion at the stomach )  ,  and the part which suspends the colon is termed the mesocolon .
any of the arteries that arise from a bifurcation of the aorta supplying the pelvic or abdomen .
any of the three veins including the common ,  external and internal iliac veins .
a layer of cuboidal epithelial cells bounded anteriorly by the capsule of the lens and posteriorly by the lens cortex .
arteries which arise from the abdominal aorta and distribute to most of the intestines .
a vein that returns blood from the intestines .
the outgrowths of the embryonic maxillary prominences that come together during prenatal development to form the secondary palate
the valves that gate the flow of blood from the ventricles into the aorta and pulmonary trunk
artery that supplies blood to the adrenal glands .
the cavity formed by the tubotympanic recess epithelium .
portion of ventral mesentery closest to the stomach .
a vascular network formed by frequent anastomoses between the blood vessels  ( arteries or veins )  of a part .
the amnion and chorion which surround and protect a developing fetus .
intrinsic membrane that arises from embryonic germ layers and grow to surround the developing embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a caecum .
an epithelium that is part of a pylorus .
an epithelium that is part of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 5 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 5 .
an epithelium that is part of a lens vesicle .
an epithelium that is part of a secondary palatal shelf .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
a mesothelium that is part of a peritoneal cavity .
a mesothelium that is part of a greater omentum .
an endothelium that is part of a right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a left lung .
a mesentery that is part of a caecum .
a dorsal mesentery that is part of a midgut .
a dorsal mesentery that is part of a caecum .
a orbitosphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lens vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 5 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 5 .
mesenchyme that is part of a optic eminence .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing secondary palatal shelf .
a mesentery of duodenum that is part of a foregut .
a mesentery of duodenum that is part of a midgut .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a footplate .
a venous system that is part of a hindbrain .
a mesoderm that has the potential to develop into a pronephros .
a tissue that is part of a spinal cord and is part of a roof plate .
a sensory system that is capable of olfacttion  ( the sensory perception of smell )  .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pectoral appendage bud mesenchyme .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pelvic appendage bud mesenchyme .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb or paired fin [ gilbert , modified ]  .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb .
the outermost layer of a blood vessel ,  composed mainly of fibrous tissue .
a tunica intima that is part of a artery .
an outermost connective tissue covering of an organ ,  vessel ,  or other structure [ wp ]  .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone ,  usually for passage of blood vessels or nerves .
an opening in the skull through which cranial nerve ii passes .
the capillary loops of the kidney that normally function as a filtration unit [ mp ]  .
the metanephros develops from the most caudal part of the nephrogenic cord that is itself derived from the intermediate plate mesoderm .
the initial renal anlage that develops from the most rostral part of the nephrogenic cord is termed the pronephros .
the ridge of mesoderm covered with endoderm that in the early developing embryo partitions the endodermal cloaca into the primary urogenital sinus  ( ventrally )  and the anorectal canal of the hindgut  ( dorsally )  ;  the urorectal septum eventually fuses with the cloacal membrane ,  dividing it into a dorsal anal membrane and a larger ventral urogenital membrane  -  this area of fusion is represented in the adult by the perineal body [ mp ]  .
a acellular anatomical structure that is the bounding layer of a anatomical structure .
an acellular membrane that is part of the epithelium ,  lies adjacent to the epithelial cells ,  and is the fusion of the the basal lamina and the reticular lamina .
the layer of extracellular matrix that lies between the endothelium of the glomerular capillaries and the podocytes of the inner or visceral layer of the bowman capsule ;  it is a fusion of the endothelial cell and podocyte basal laminas and acts as a physical barrier and an ion - selective filter
layer of the glomerular basement membrane adjacent to the glomerular capillary .
nephric tubules  ( nephrons )  form embryonically along the nephric ridge .
any portion of the aorta including the ascending and descending aorta ,  and aortic arch or a portion of the aortic orifice of the left ventricle .
the dorsal aorta is a blood vessel in a single - pass circulatory system that carries oxygenated blood from the gills to the rest of the body .
in the circulatory system of animals ,  a portal venous system occurs when a capillary bed drains into another capillary bed through veins ,  without first going through the heart .
a bone tissue that is part of a long bone .
a round nodule ,  small eminence ,  or warty outgrowth found on bones ,  skin ,  or within the lungs in tuberculosis .
a fascicle that is part of a spinal cord .
a fascicle that is part of a brain .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a sacral region .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a caudal region .
a subdivision of spinal cord ventral column that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord ventral column that is part of a sacral spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord ventral column that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord ventral column that is part of a lumbar spinal cord .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
cell condensation that is an aggregation of mesenchymal cells that are committed to differentiate into chondroblasts and chondrocytes .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme whose cells are committed to become chondroblasts .
the paired ventral prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo ;  the two prominences unite ventrally and fuse to form the mandible and lower lip
the paired dorsal prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo that unite with the ipsilateral medial nasal process to form the upper jaw
an indentation of the olfactory placode which ends when the pits hollows out to form the nasopharynx [ go ]  .
a groove that is situated between the 1st and 2nd pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 2nd and 3rd pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 3rd and 4th pharyngeal arch .
the embryonic anlage of the external genitalia ,  which emerges as paired swellings ventral to the cloacal membrane ,  is proposed to be derived from all three germ layers ,  and gives rise to the penis ,  clitoris ,  scrotum ,  labia ,  and foreskin
an external pocketing of pharyngeal ectoderm that contacts a region of endoderm  ( a pharyngeal pouch )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions by the pharyngeal arches .
a subdivision of the autopod that corresponds to one or more bones arranged in series branching from the main limb axis .
a subdivision of skeleton that supports pharyngeal arch 2 .
the epithelial lining of the surface of the coelom .
a bone that is part of the region of the hindlimb that includes the zeugopod and stylopod .
a bone that is part of the manus skeleton .
a bone that is part of the pes skeleton
anatomical cluster that is located in the posterior region of the cranium and forms the margin of the foramen magnum and occipital condyles .
each seminal vesicle consists of a single tube ,  coiled upon itself ,  and giving off several irregular cecal diverticula ;  the separate coils ,  as well as the diverticula ,  are connected together by fibrous tissue .
any of the ducts that are part of a male reproductive system .
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
a serous sac which is the aggregate of the conjunctiva plus the conjunctival space
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
a naris that provides one of the small external openings of the head that give passage to air for breathing .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of cranial skeleton ,  set of all vertebrae ,  set of all ribs and sternum [ fma ,  modified ]  .
an outflow tract that is part of a cardiac atrium .
anteriosuperior ,  smooth - walled portion of the cavity of the right ventricle ,  beginning at the supraventricular crest and terminating in the pulmonary trunk
anterosuperior fibrous portion of the left ventricle that connects to the ascending aorta .
outflow part of atrium which consists of wall and cavity of the outflow part of right atrium and the tricuspid valve .
an outflow tract of atrium that is part of a left atrium .
any of the nerve fiber tracts that span the longitudinal fissure between the cerebral and / or cerebellar hemispheres of the brain
a sheet of somatopleure that grows upward over the embryo and eventually meets in the midline enclosing the embryo ,  eventually giving rise to the amnion and chorion [ kardong ]  .
the vertical crest of the interior wall of the right atrium that lies to the right of the sinus of the vena cava and separates this from the remainder of the right atrium
the laminar structure of the heart
the layer of loose fibrous tissue located between the endocardium and myocardium which contains the nerves and the impulse - conducting system  ( purkinje fibers )  of the heart
any of the arteries or veins that supply blood to the heart or return blood from the heart muscles to the circulation
the supporting bundles of muscular fibers lining the walls of the atrial myocardium
the wall of the heart that separates the right atrium and left ventricle ;  and is located just above the septal cusp of the tricuspid valve
the three fibrous triangular components and associated flap of the aortic valve
the fibrous ring of the aortic valve that attaches the cusps of aortic valve to the wall of left ventricle ,  and which consists of portions of the fibrous scallops of the posterior ,  right anterior and left anterior cusps
the three fibrous triangular components and associated flap of the pulmonary valve
the fibrous ring of the pulmonary valve that attaches the cusps of pulmonary valve to the wall of right ventricle ,  and which consists of portions of the fibrous scallops of the anterior ,  right posterior and left posterior cusps
the tendinous strands that connect the papillary muscles on the wall of the ventricles to the leaflets of the atrioventricular valves ;  the chordae tendineae serve to prevent the av valves from prolapsing back into the atria
the fibrous ring of the mitral valve that attaches the cusps of mitral valve to the heart ,  and which consists of portions of the fibrous scallops of the anterior and posterior cusps
the two fibrous components and associated flaps of the mitral valve
the fibrous ring of the tricuspid valve that attaches the cusps of tricuspid valve to the heart ,  and which consists of portions of the fibrous scallops of the anterior cusp  ( infundibular cusp )  ,  the posterior cusp  ( marginal cusp )  ,  and the septal cusp  ( medial cusp ) 
the three fibrous triangular components and associated flaps of the tricuspid valve
the paired arteries that carry blood to the yolk sac from the dorsal aorta
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
a ring of ribrous tissue that surrounds the atrioventricular and arterial orifices
the part of the heart valves that serves to seal the heart valves when closed .
a small transparent canal running through the vitreous body from the optical nerve disc to the lens .
a digit that is part of a digit 1 plus metapodial segment .
a digit that is part of a digit 5 plus metapodial segment .
a collection of two or more connected limb segments .
the falx cerebri ,  also known as the cerebral falx ,  so named from its sickle - like form ,  is a strong ,  arched fold of dura mater which descends vertically in the longitudinal fissure between the cerebral hemispheres .
a process projection from a part of the vertebra such as centrum or arches .
a vertebral arch that is attached to the ventral surface or the vertebral centrum and encloses and protects the caudal artery and vein ventrally .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod .
a bone that is part of a post - anal tail .
subdivision of an organism along anterior - posterior axis that is the posteriormost region ,  extending past the anus  ( or cloaca ,  if present )  ,  consisting of a tail in some fully formed chordates  ( or a tail bud in embryos )  .
that portion of the spine comprising the cervical vertebrae .
that part of the spine comprising the thoracic vertebrae .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the lumbar subdivision of the body ,  containing the lumbar vertebrae .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the sacral subdivision of the body ,  containing the sacral vertebrae or sacrum .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the caudal subdivision of the body ,  containing the caudal vertebrae .
a collection of all skeletal elements in some subdivision of the vertebral column .
the base or posterior surface of the urinary bladder contains the trigone of the bladder and the outlet where urine empties through the internal urethral orifice .
a funiculus of neuraxis that is part of a spinal cord .
the cerebrospinal nerves consist of numerous nerve fibers collected together and enclosed in membranous sheaths .
a threadlike extension of a nerve cell and consists of an axon and myelin sheath  ( if it is myelinated )  in the nervous system .
axons of neurons encased in a lipoproteinaceous material called myelin .
the mesonephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the mesonephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
the mesonephric distal tubule is a mesonephric nephron tubule that begins at the macula densa and extends to the mesonephric connecting tubule
the mesonephric proximal tubule extends from the capsule to the distal tubule
the spiral septum that separates the truncus arteriosus into a ventral pulmonary trunk and the dorsal aorta [ mp ]  .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 that develop into the folds of the pinna and gradually shift upwards and backwards to their final position on the head .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a carpal bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a carpal bone .
the posterior section of the developing metencephalon recognized transiently within the vertebrate embryo ;  the rhombic lip extends posteriorly from the roof of the fourth ventricle to dorsal neuroepithelial cell and can be divided into eight structural units based on rhombomeres 1 - 8  ( r1 - r8 )  ,  recognized at early stages of hindbrain development ;  producing granule cells and five brainstem nuclei ,  the rhombic lip plays an important role in developing a complex cerebellar neural system
the membrane that covers the embryonic cloaca ,  formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm ;  the urorectal septum joins the cloacal membrane and divides it into an anal membrane and a urogenital membrane ;  the point where the urorectal septum intersects the cloacal membrane is the future site of the perineal body ;  proliferation of mesoderm and ectoderm around the cloacal membrane produces primordial tissues of the external genitalia in both sexes: the genital tubercle ,  genital folds ,  and genital swellings .
the foremost region of the future forebrain that develops into the diencephalon .
a differentiated genital tubercle that is part of a female reproductive system .
a femur endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the foregut and midgut .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
a tendon that has the potential to develop into a central tendon .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain .
a sac - like cavity ventral to the liver ,  lying in the sub - mesodermal space and closed by a thin sheet of ectodermal cells ,  from which the future gall bladder develops .
a humerus endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a humerus endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a iliac endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a ischial endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a ischial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a differentiated genital tubercle that is part of a male reproductive system .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
groove between maxillary prominence and lateral nasal process .
the notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down .
a midline cellular cord formed from the migration of mesenchymal cells from the primitive knot
either of two openings transmitting nerves and blood vessels to or from the orbit .
the pair of depressions of thickened otic placode epithelium ,  that further develops into the otic vesicles
each of the canals that links the peritoneal cavity and the caudal part of a pleural cavity .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
future brain vesicle that gives rise to telencephalic ventricle / lateral ventricles and 3rd ventricle
a pubic endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a radius bone .
a radius - ulna endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a rib endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a rib endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a scapula endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a scapula endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a dense syncitial - like mesenchymal thickening in the dorsal mesogastrium [ isbn ]  .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a sublingual gland .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a submandibular gland .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a ulna .
a segment of the eyeball that is filled with refractive media
body substance in a liquid or semi - solid state in the eyeball which serves to refract light .
liquid components of living organisms .
the superior oblique muscle ,  or obliquus oculi superior ,  is a fusiform muscle in the upper ,  medial side of the orbit whose primary action is downward ,  lateral rotation of the eye .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a brainstem .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a lateral ventricle .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a third ventricle .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a fourth ventricle .
an artery that connects two larger arteries .
an external iliac artery branch that supplies blood to the anterior abdominal wall .
a vein that drains the anterior abdominal wall .
the unique bone located in the glans penis of most mammals except humans ;  it is used for copulation and varies in size and shape by species
the ossified region of endochondral and membranous bone located in the clitoris of most mammals except humans ;  it is homologous to the penile bone  ( aka as baculum ,  penis bone or os penis )  in male mammals
a ring of fibrous or fibrocartilaginous tissue  ( as of an intervertebral disk or surrounding an orifice of the heart )  .
a lobe of lung that is part of a right lung .
system pertaining to a bronchus and alveoli .
a substance formed from the secretion of one or more glands of the male genital tract in which sperm cells are suspended .
the muscles that move the eye .
any region of a nephron tubule that is convoluted .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a zone of skin .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a male reproductive gland .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a female reproductive gland .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
a substance that is secreted by a mammary gland .
a loop of henle that is part of a kidney outer medulla outer stripe .
a vasculature that is part of a kidney .
a tube in the kidney that collect and transport urine .
a tube that is part of a excretory system .
an organ system subdivision that is a network of vessels capable of removing accumulating protein and fluid from the interstitial space and returning it to the vascular space .
the pharynx is the part of the digestive system immediately posterior to the mouth [ go ]  .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
a urethral meatus that is part of a female urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a left ventricle of a heart .
a myocardium that is part of a right ventricle of a heart .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a hypothalamus .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a diencephalon .
the pectinate line  ( anocutaneous line ,  dentate line ,  anorectal junction )  is a line which divides the upper 2 / 3rds and lower 1 / 3rd of the anal canal .
an organ that is part of a vestibular system .
the round ligament of the uterus originates at the uterine horns ,  in the parametrium .
a vestigial structure that is a remnant of an embryonic structure that remains in the adult organism .
a remnant of embryonic structure that develops_from a artery .
a remnant of embryonic structure that develops_from a vein .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into endoderm .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into mesoderm .
a cartilaginous joint that connects left and right mandibles / dentary bones .
a sheet of extracellular matrix .
a large vein or channel for the circulation of venous blood
an external ear that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
an external ear that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
an artery with its origin in the lateral terminal branch of the internal thoracic artery ,  with distribution to the diaphragm and the intercostal muscles ,  and with anastomoses to the branches of the pericardiacophrenic and inferior phrenic .
a process of the scapula in most mammals representing the remnant of the coracoid bone of lower vertebrates thas has become fused with the scapula .
the abdominal wall represents the boundaries of the abdominal cavity .
a muscle layer that is part of a fallopian tube .
an adventitia that is part of a epididymis .
a muscle layer that is part of a epididymis .
an adventitia that is part of a vas deferens .
an adventitia that is part of a seminal vesicle .
the outer coelomic epithelial covering of the testis ;  a sac of serous tissue covering the testis and the epididymis within which the testis can move about ;  it covers the tunica albuginea
erectile tissue at the end of the clitoris ,  which is continuous with the intermediate part of the vestibulovaginal bulbs [ bto ]  .
anatomical cavity for the proximal articular surface of the proximal limb or fin element with the scapulocoracoid or equivalent structure .
a joint that connects one phalanx to another along a proximodistal axis .
a region of muscle in many organs in the vertebrate body ,  adjacent to the submucosa membrane .
the galea aponeurotica  ( epicranial aponeurosis ,  aponeurosis epicranialis )  is a tough layer of dense fibrous tissue which covers the upper part of the cranium ;  behind ,  it is attached ,  in the interval between its union with the occipitales ,  to the external occipital protuberance and highest nuchal lines of the occipital bone ;  in front ,  it forms a short and narrow prolongation between its union with the frontales .
the great cerebral vein is one of the large blood vessels in the skull draining the cerebrum  ( brain )  [ wp , unvetted ] 
on the interior surface of the temporal bone ,  behind the rough surface of the apex ,  is the large circular aperture of the carotid canal ,  which ascends at first vertically ,  and then ,  making a bend ,  runs horizontally forward and medialward .
the three - lobed cloverleaf - shaped aponeurosis situated at the center of the diaphragm ;  the central tendon is fused with the fibrous pericardium that provides attachment for the muscle fibers
a fat pad that is part of a orbital region .
a valve that is part of a vein .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a epithelium .
the hypoglossal canal is a bony canal in the occipital bone of the skull .
a vein that is part of a vertebral column .
a conduit enclosed within the vertebral foramen of the vertebrae through which the spinal cord passes .
a vasculature that is part of a cerebellum .
paired ,  long bones of endochondral origin formed by the fusion of the radius and ulna .
the third segment of the limb ,  including either the wrist segment  ( carpus )  or the ankle segment  ( tarsus ) 
the collection of all skeletal elements in an autopodium region .
the central cone shaped core of spongy bone about which turns the spiral canal
a canthus is a corner of the eye where the upper and lower eyelids meet .
during the third week of embryological development there appears ,  immediately behind the ventral ends of the two halves of the mandibular arch ,  a rounded swelling named the tuberculum impar ,  which was described by his as undergoing enlargement to form the buccal part of the tongue .
during the third week there appears ,  immediately behind the ventral ends of the two halves of the mandibular arch ,  a rounded swelling named the tuberculum impar ,  which was described by his as undergoing enlargement to form the buccal part of the tongue .
the edge of the cornea where it joins the sclera ;  the limbus is a common site for the occurrence of corneal epithelial neoplasm
layer of nonkeratinized squamous epithelium lining the conjunctiva ,  overlying scleral tissue
an epithelium that is composed primarily of secretory cells .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of an anatomical surface .
a bony projection on the distal epiphysis of the humerus that is the attachment site for the extensor muscles of the distal parts of the forelimb .
the olecranon is a large ,  thick ,  curved bony eminence of the forearm that projects behind the elbow .
structural framework that provides support to the nasal sacs and ducts .
loose connective tissue located at the outer and inner layers of organs .
the head of ulna presents an articular surface ,  part of which ,  of an oval or semilunar form ,  is directed downward ,  and articulates with the upper surface of the triangular articular disk which separates it from the wrist - joint ;  the remaining portion ,  directed lateralward ,  is narrow ,  convex ,  and received into the ulnar notch of the radius .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a trachea .
the initial segment of a cranial nerve ,  leaving the central nervous system .
a furrow or an incomplete tube .
endochondral bone that is dorsoventrally compressed and provides attachment site for muscles of the pectoral appendage .
a region of nephron tubule that is part of a cortex of kidney .
a muscular coat that is part of a ureter .
this gland can either be a discrete structure located bilaterally above each kidney ,  or a cluster of cells in the head kidney that perform the functions of the adrenal gland .
subdivision of long bone which forms the part of the bone between two metaphyses .
a diaphysis that is part of a femur [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal metaphysis that is part of a femur .
a distal metaphysis that is part of a femur .
a metaphysis that is part of a femur .
the distalmost portion of the digestive tract ,  derived from the hindgut ,  and terminating with the anus .
a gland that secretes a seminal fluid .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the pes  ( foot ) 
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a handplate .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the manus  ( hand ) 
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a vasculature that is part of a liver .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular prominence .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a digestive tract .
an epithelium that is part of a lip .
an epithelium characterised by its most superficial layer consisting of squamous epithelial cells .
multilaminar epithelium which consists of more than one layer of squamous cells only one layer of which is in contact with a basement membrane .
a non - keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a esophagus .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a stomach .
the squamous epithelium of the cervical portio is similar to that of the vagina ,  except that it is generally smooth and lacks rete pegs .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a vagina .
a glandular epithelium that lines the stomach .
any gland that is part of the digestive system .
simple columnar epithelium that constitutes the secretory part of a gland .
stomach mucosa that is lined with glandular epithelium and part of a stomach glandular region .
an epithelium that is part of a vestibular labyrinth .
simple columnar epithelium made up of cells specialized to serve as sensory cells for the reception of external stimuli ,  as the sensory cells of the cochlea ,  vestibule ,  nasal mucosa ,  and tongue .
the epithelial cells lining the capsule and trabeculae of the thymus
the epithelial cell layer containing the sensory hair cells and their associated sensory nerve terminals
an epithelium that is part of a pinna .
the efferent ducts  ( or efferent ductules or ductuli efferentes )  connect the rete testis with the initial section of the epididymis .
a duct or series of ducts that transports sperm from the gonad .
an epithelium that is part of a efferent duct .
the ejaculatory duct epithelium is composed of cuboidal to columnar cells between or through which project the terminal parts of the ducts of the unicellular prostate glands .
an epithelium that is part of a uterus .
the inner lining of the cheeks and lips .
an epithelium that is part of a submandibular gland primordium .
the stroma of the ovary is a peculiar soft tissue ,  abundantly supplied with blood vessels ,  consisting for the most part of spindle - shaped cells with a small amount of ordinary connective tissue .
the distal part of adenohypophysis: the part that makes up the main body of the gland .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
a capillary that is part of the coronary system .
a two dimensional anatomical structure that is the boundary between an anatomical structure and an anatomical substance ,  an anatomical space or the organism's environment .
the splanchnic mesoderm in the cardiogenic region where the heart develops ;  it gives rise to endocardial heart tubes that fuse to form the primordial cardiac tube ,  the heart primordium [ web ]  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
a multicellular organism that is at the juvenile stage .
a multicellular organism that existence_ends_with a post - juvenile adult stage and existence_starts_with a post - juvenile adult stage .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the hyoid arch .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  keeps up the circulation of the blood or analogs [ go , modified ]  .
a long narrow tube that joins the yolk - sac to the midgut lumen of the developing fetus .
one of the minute vascular projections of the fetal chorion that combines with maternal uterine tissue to form the placenta .
the pit in the center of the abdominal wall marking the point where the umbilical cord entered in the fetus .
the femur neck or neck of the femur is a flattened pyramidal process of bone ,  connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft ,  and forming with the latter a wide angle opening medialward .
a pharyngeal pouch that is between pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 .
a pharyngeal puch that is between the pharyngeal arches 2 and 3 .
a pharyngeal pouch that between pharyngeal arches 3 and 4 .
portion of tissue that consists of the precursors of the pronephric glomus or glomerulus ;  derived from the medial portion of the pronephric intermediate mesoderm .
ganglion which is located in the trunk .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
an internal carotid artery that branching_part_of a left common carotid artery plus branches .
an internal carotid artery that branching_part_of a right common carotid artery plus branches .
an embryonic structure that will either develop into a post - anal tail or recede into a vestigial remnant of the tail .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a midgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a hindgut .
a valve leafleft that is part of a mitral valve .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a anal canal .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a colon .
the inferior petrosal sinus ,  within the human head ,  is an area beneath the brain ,  which allows blood veins to span the area ,  from the center of the head downward .
the medial border of the scapula  ( vertebral border ,  medial margin )  is the longest of the three borders ,  and extends from the medial to the inferior angle .
a lamina propria that is part of a colonic mucosa .
a serous membrane that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
a muscle layer that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
a mesothelium that is part of a serous pericardium .
the stroma of the bone marrow is all tissue not directly involved in the primary function of hematopoiesis .
the structure from the trachea ,  bronchi ,  and bronchioles that forms the airways that supply air to the lungs .
multicellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
the vasculature consisting of brachiocephalic arteries and veins .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a trunk neural crest .
an embryo stage that covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
the osseous cochlea is the bony foundation that forms the small shell arrangement for the cochlear nerve .
a cranial nucleus for the vestibular nerve .
a tunica media that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a vein .
a tunica intima that is part of a vein .
a tunica media that is part of a vein .
gray matter of the central nervous system which is a collection of clustered nuclei .
any of the nuclei that comprise the superior olivary complex  ( superior olive )  .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a cervical region of vertebral column .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a thoracic region of vertebral column .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a lumbar region of vertebral column .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a sacral region of vertebral column .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a trachea .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of an appendage .
skeletal subdivision consisting of the anterior appendicular limb skeleton ,  excluding the pectoral girdle .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic appendage region .
the rhombencephalon  ( or hindbrain )  is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the sinus venosus .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a endocardium .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a presomitic mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a neural plate .
the part of the blastula that has the potential to develop into a paraxial mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain - midbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 1 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a pronephric mesoderm .
a proximal convoluted tubule that is part of a pronephros .
a blood vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a vasculature that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a vasculature that is part of a chordate pharynx .
a vasculature that is part of a limb / fin .
a glomerular capillary that is part of a pronephros .
a glomerular basement membrane that is part of a pronephros .
a dense accumulation of exocrine glands in the pancreas often surrounding islets of langerhans .
a duct that collects and carries secretions of the exocrine pancreas to the intestine .
a triangular plate of elastic fibrocartilage that forms the cartilage component of the pharyngotympanic tube .
the bony part of pharyngotympanic tube is about 12 mm .
an anatomical surface that is part of a tongue .
the upper  ( superior )  side of the tongue .
the lower  ( inferior )  side of the tongue .
a multi - tissue structure consisting of bone and soft tissue that forms a part of the roof of the oral cavity .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer of an animal ,  it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material  ( e .g .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a pelvic appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a paired limb or fin .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pelvic appendage .
a nucleus of brain that spans a midbrain tegmentum .
nerve fibers crossing the midline of the neuraxis relative to their point of origin ,  on a course to from one level of the nervous system to another .
a neural decussation that is part of a diencephalon .
the space within an epithelial sphere .
a tissue whose predominant feature is extracellular matrix which may or may not be highly hydrated or calcified .
an epithelial tube that is open at one end only .
an epithelial tube open at both ends that allows fluid flow .
a collection of connected epithelial tubes with a single portal .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
a ring of smooth muscle cells whose contraction closes the opening of the ring .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
mesenchyme whose cells are embedded in obvious amounts of extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
a ciliated columnar epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
a cuboidal epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
epithelium bearing vibratile cilia on the free surface .
stratified columnar epithelia is a rare type of epithelial tissue composed of column shaped cells arranged in multiple layers .
a thin ,  loose vascular connective tissue that makes up the membranes surrounding joints and the sheaths protecting tendons  ( particularly flexor tendons in the hands and feet )  where they pass over bony prominences .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a synovial joint .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
a neural nucleus that is part of a medulla oblongata .
the sensory trigeminal nerve nuclei are the largest of the cranial nerve nuclei ,  and extend through the whole of the midbrain ,  pons and medulla .
a lymph node that is part of a thorax .
a developing mesenchymal capsule that covers the developing brain and spinal cord and is the precursor of the meningeal cluster .
the innermost layer of the mesenchymal capsule that surrounds the developing brain ,  primarily of neural crest origin .
the outermost layer of the mesenchymal capsule that surrounds the developing brain ,  of mixed paraxial mesoderm and neural crest origin .
the junction between the esophagus and the stomach epithelium
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
a sphincter that is part of an esophagus .
functional unit of the kidney that forms urine ,  consisting of two parts ,  the nephron and the collecting tubule .
region of the embryo into the area in which the kidney rudiment will develop .
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
endodermal bud derived from the endodermal epithelium of the embryonic pharyngeal floor [ mp ]  .
the minute opening of a taste bud on the surface of the oral mucosa through which the gustatory hairs of the specialised neuroepithelial gustatory cells project .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a thalamus .
an axon tract that is part of a spinal cord .
an axon tract that is part of a brain .
a bone that is part of a reproductive organ .
the interphalangeal articulations of the foot  ( articulations of the phalanges )  are ginglymoid joints ,  and each has a plantar and two collateral ligaments .
the interphalangeal articulations of hand are hinge - joints of the phalanges of the hand .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 1 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 1 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 5 .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 5 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
a gland that is part of a epidermis .
any portion of sweat that is produced by a sweat gland of the scrotum .
any sweat gland that is part of a scrotum .
an endothelium that is part of a umbilical artery .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
any fluid produced by a serous gland .
anatomical system that consists of all blood and lymph vessels .
a bridge of mesoderm connecting the caudal end of the young embryo with the trophoblastic tissues ;  the precursor of the umbilical cord .
a vasculature that is part of a connecting stalk .
adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
a tail that extends from the posterior tip of the organism to the anus ,  contains muscle and skeleton .
an organism subdivision that encompasses the region containing the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
mesentery that is located in the peritoneum .
external part of the nose containing the external nares .
a bone that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a bone that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
a bone element or fused bone that is part of pelvic girdle .
a subdivision of a limb or fin skeleton consisting of bones which connects the upper limb or fin to the axial skeleton on each side .
skeletal subdivision consisting of a set of bones linking the axial series to the hindlimb zeugopodium and offering anchoring areas for hindlimb and caudal musculature .
bone element that arises as a result of intramembranous ossification .
skeletal element that is composed of cartilage tissue and may be permanent or transient .
connective tissue ,  which consists of fibroblasts ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a regular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
connective tissue that is dominated by collagen fibres organized into a definitive pattern  ( e .g . ,  parallel to one another )  ,  with comparatively fewer cells  ( mostly fibroblasts )  .
a bone that is part of a craniocervical region .
a sesamoid bone that is part of a manus .
a sesamoid bone that is part of a pes .
the irregular bones are bones which ,  from their peculiar form ,  cannot be grouped as long bone ,  short bone ,  flat bone or sesamoid bone .
a skeletal joint that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a anatomical surface that is part of a cartilage element .
a tendon that attaches_to a biceps brachii .
a tendon that attaches_to a triceps brachii .
a bone that is hollow or contains many air cells ,  such as the mastoid process of the temporal bone [ tmd ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the pelvis .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
either of two muscles of the calf of the leg .
subdivision of thorax ,  which in humans is the posterior part of the thorax and is demarcated from the chest by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage and the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column ;  together with the chest ,  it constitutes the thorax .
a muscle of back that is part of a lower back .
a muscle of back that is part of a dorsal thoracic segment of trunk .
the fibrous connective tissue that surrounds the root of a tooth ,  separating it from and attaching it to the alveolar bone .
a knoblike tooth primordium that develops into the mature tooth and consists of enamel organ ,  dental papilla ,  and dental sac enclosing them .
an endothelium that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a nasopharynx .
with numerous vascular spaces that may become engorged with blood
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a clitoris .
the external junctural region between the lower part of the abdomen and the thigh .
the sole is the bottom of the foot .
an intestinal villus in the duodenum .
an intestinal villus in the jejunum .
an intestinal villus in the ileum .
an epithelium that is part of a ileum .
an epithelium that is part of a duodenum .
an epithelium that is part of a breast .
epithelium pertaining to the trachea and bronchi .
the cells lining the proximal tubule are cuboidal epithelial cells with deep basal membrane invaginations that provide a large basal surface area .
an epithelium that is part of a distal tubule .
an epithelium that is part of a buccal mucosa .
a mammary gland that is part of a inguinal part of abdomen .
a ridge of epidermal cells that will form the mammary placodes .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a cervical vertebra .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a lumbar vertebra .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a sacral vertebra .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a thoracic vertebra .
intertarsal articulations are the joints of the tarsus .
any muscle organ that is part of an nose .
a muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland .
an opening on medial margin of the kidney leading into the renal sinus .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a tibia .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a fibula .
an embryonic structure that is derived from the inner cell mass and lies above the hypoblast and gives rise to the three primary germ layers
the dorsal venous arch of the foot is a superficial vein that connects the small saphenous vein and the great saphenous vein .
a limb segment that is part of a hindlimb .
a limb segment that is part of a forelimb .
the infratentorial compartment that contains the cerebellum and brain stem .
any of the three large depressions in the posterior ,  middle ,  and anterior aspects of the floor of the cranial cavity
a zone of skin that is part of a cheek .
the gingival sulcus is an area of potential space between a tooth and the surrounding gingival tissue and is lined by sulcular epithelium .
a branch of that maxillary nerve that innervates the mucous membrane of the hard palate .
an external organ of a male organism that is specialized to deliver sperm during copulation .
a transient embryonic complex that comprises the pharyngeal arches ,  bulges of tissues of mesoderm and neural crest derivation through which pass nerves and pharyngeal arch arteries .
a head that is part of a embryo .
an endoderm that is part of a thymus primordium .
anterior ,  middle and posterior mediastinum .
the posterior mediastinum is an irregular triangular space running parallel with the vertebral column .
a brain that develops_from a neural tube .
any duct branching of of the main epididymis duct .
an out - pocket of thickened ventral foregut epithelium adjacent to the developing heart .
the fetal ligament attached to the inferior end of the epididymis and testis and ,  at its other end ,  to the bottom of the scrotum ;  it is present during ,  and is thought to guide ,  the descent of the testis into the scrotum and then atrophies .
a gubernaculum that is part of a female reproductive system .
a ligament that does not connect two skeletal elements .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements [ vsao , modified ]  .
the smooth muscle layer of the stomach wall that functions to churn and mix food and gastric secretions as well as to move food along the digestive tract to the intestines
the short narrow part of the stomach extending from the pyloric antrum to the pyloric sphincter
a gastric gland in the cardiac region of the stomach ;  cardiac glands are fewer in number than in the fundus and body ,  and secrete mucin which coats the stomach and protects it [ mp ] 
the gastric glands in the pyloric region of the stomach ;  the pyloric glands secrete mucin ,  which coats the stomach and protects it ,  and hormones such as gastrin and enkephalin [ mp ]  .
the distinguishing cell types of the lung alveolar tissue ,  including pulmonary epithelial cells  ( pneumocytes )  ,  alveolar capillary endothelial cells ,  interstitial cells  ( fibroblasts )  and alveolar macrophages
the part of the airway consisting of a respiratory bronchiole and all of its branches
any skeletal muscle organ in the hypodermis  /  superficial fascia
the nerve fiber tracts that span the midline of the spinal cord
bone tissue that is an unmineralized bone matrix deposited by osteoblasts prior to the mineralization of bone tissue .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all pulmonary arteries and all pulmonary veins .
the hemorrhoidal plexus  ( or rectal venous plexus )  surrounds the rectum ,  and communicates in front with the vesical venous plexus in the male ,  and the uterovaginal plexus in the female .
subdivision of endoskeleton derived from pharyngeal arches
a pharyngeal arch that is posterior to the hyoid arch .
an external projection of an aquatic animal as a fish used in propelling or guiding the body [ bto ]  .
skeletal element that forms superficially in the organism ,  usually in association with the ectoderm [ vsao ]  .
bone element that is adjacent to the notochord .
a parenchyma that is part of a lung .
a lobe of lung that is part of a left lung .
a bone that is part of a forelimb region .
a sac containing the developing tooth and its odontogenic organ .
the distal portion of the colon ;  it develops embryonically from the hindgut and functions in the storage and elimination of waste .
any exocrine gland whose cells bud their secretions off through the plasma membrane producing membrane - bound vesicles in the lumen ;  the apical portion of the secretory cell of the gland pinches off and enters the lumen ;  it loses part of its cytoplasm in their secretions ;  apocrine secretion is functional during hormonal stress or puberty ;  an example of true apocrine glands are mammary glands ,  responsible for secreting breast milk .
a dense regular connective tissue that that connects muscles together [ wp ,  modified ]  .
the functional tissue of the kidney ,  consisting of the nephrons .
one of the racemose glands in the walls of the esophagus that in humans are small and serve principally to lubricate the food but in some birds secrete a milky fluid on which the young are fed .
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
any portion of tissue that surrounds a urethra .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower back .
a zone of skin that is part of a dorsal thoracic segment of trunk .
an uterine horn that is in the left side of a uterus .
an uterine horn that is in the right side of a uterus .
an artery that supplies blood to the urinary bladder .
vein that drains left lung and returns blood to the heart .
vein that drains right lung and returns blood to the heart .
any region of a nephron tubule that is straight .
the prostatic veins form a well - marked prostatic plexus which lies partly in the fascial sheath of the prostate and partly between the sheath and the prostatic capsule .
an organism containing a developing embryo ,  fetus ,  or unborn offspring within the body .
the uterus in pregnancy
a mature thymus that is entirely part of the cervical region .
a mature thymus that is entirely part of thoracic region .
a gonad prior to differentiating into a definitive testis or ovary .
the adenohypophyseal placode forms the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland and gives rise to the endocrine secretory cells of the pituitary
rostralmost epibranchial placode .associated with 1st branchial cleft .
epibranchial placode between geniculate and nodose .
caudalmost epibranchial placode .associated with 3rd branchial cleft .
cranial ganglion which develops from an epibranchial placode .
endocardium that is part of the right atrium .
one of a group of three muscles fibularis  ( peronus )  longus ,  brevis ,  and tertius originating on the fibula and inserting on the metatarsals
a fold of tissue which extends into the peritoneal cavity of the developing embryo and participates in the separation of the pleural and peritoneal cavities .
a vein that is part of a craniocervical region .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
a sphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a sphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
any suture between cranial and / or facial bones .
any suture between facial bones .
the limb epidermis is the outer epithelial layer of the limb ,  it is a complex stratified squamous epithelium .
a nephric duct is a tube that drains a primitive kidney [ go ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a medial nasal prominence .
mesenchyme that is part of a lateral nasal prominence .
an ectoderm that is part of a lateral nasal prominence .
a thin fold of ectoderm and endoderm that separates the pharyngeal pouches from the pharyngeal clefts in a developing embryo .
a pharyngeal membrane that separates the first pharyngeal cleft from the first pharyngeal pouch .
cartilaginous form of a vertebral centrum ,  a skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
the superior surface of the tongue divided by the sulcus terminalis into an anterior two - thirds ,  the presulcal part  ( pars presulcalis )  .
the axilla is the area directly under the joint where the forelimb connects to the shoulder .
mesenchyme that is part of a otic placode .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
an endoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
mesenchyme that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a mesentery that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a portion of mesenchymal tissue associated with an individual pharyngeal arch .
an epithelium that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
anatomical region that surrounds the otic vesicle .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the frontonasal region of the head
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindgut .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing main bronchus .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trachea .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing middle ear .
an endoderm that is part of a anal region .
an epithelium that is part of a lateral lingual swelling .
mesenchyme that is part of a handplate .
mesenchyme that is part of a maxillary prominence .
a vascular plexus that is part of a left lung .
a vascular plexus that is part of a right lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a sublingual gland primordium .
mesenchyme that is part of a submandibular gland primordium .
a hepatic sinusoid that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic sinusoid that is part of a right lobe of liver .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a segment of a digit containing the distal phalanx ,  and overlapping the distal interphalangeal joint [ cjm ]  .
a segment of the manual digit containing the distal phalanx
a segment of the pedal digit containing the distal phalanx .
a skeletal joint that connects a mesopodium bone and connects a proximal phalanx .
a nail ,  hoof or claw .
a nail that is part of a manual digit .
a submucosa that is part of a intestine .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the trunk of the body ,  containing the trunk / presacral vertebrae .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future spinal cord .
a cerebrospinal fluid - filled space that runs longitudinally through the length of the entire spinal cord .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future medulla oblongata .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future metencephalon .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future myelencephalon .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch mandibular component .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing left lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing right lung .
a neural plate that develops_from a future forebrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive midbrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive hindbrain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a midbrain .
bilateral mesenchymal mesoderm parallel and immediately adjacent to the neural tube / notochord ;  it generates a subset of extra - ocular ,  and other head ,  muscles .
a somite that is part of a tail .
a proximal straight tubule that is part of a pronephros .
the paired bundles of nerve fibers entering and leaving the spinal cord at each segment .
the lumbar nerves are the five spinal nerves emerging from the lumbar vertebrae .
the five sacral nerves emerge from the sacrum .
a spinal nerve root that is part of a thoracic nerve .
a spinal nerve root that is part of a lumbar nerve .
a spinal nerve root that is part of a sacral nerve .
chondrocranium chondrification center that that forms anterior body of sphenoid ,  containing the sella turcica and posterior body of sphenoid .
the body of the sphenoid bone ,  more or less cubical in shape ,  is hollowed out in its interior to form two large cavities ,  the sphenoidal air sinuses ,  which are separated from each other by a septum .
forms around the developing pituitary ,  and together with prechordal cartilages creates body of sphenoid bone
one of the two epithelia which make up the tympanic membrane  ( along with the fibrous layer ) 
a eyelid connective tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
a basement membrane that is part of a nephron tubule .
a basement membrane that is part of a bronchus .
a basement membrane that is part of a trachea .
an artery that supplies oxygenated blood to the ear .
nucleus located in the midbrain .
nucleus located within the hindbrain .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a telencephalon .
ventral mesentery is the part of the peritoneum closest to the navel .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a embryonic cloaca .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a rectum .
the nasal fin is an epithelial seam that develops by fusion between the epithelial linings of the medial and lateral nasal swellings .
the oronasal membrane separates the oral cavity and nasal cavity .
the spinal root of accessory nerve  ( or part )  is firm in texture ,  and its fibers arise from the motor cells in the lateral part of the anterior column of the gray substance of the medulla spinalis as low as the fifth cervical nerve .
anatomical cluster consisting of adjacent teeth constituting a row .
a tooth row that is part of a skeleton of lower jaw .
a tooth row that is part of a skeleton of upper jaw .
a organ cavity that is part of a pharyngotympanic tube .
a epithelium that is part of a hypopharynx .
a epithelium that is part of a vermiform appendix .
any endocardium that is part of the right ventricle of the heart .
any endocardium that is part of the left ventricle of the heart .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a stomodeum .
the cavity of the developing embryo that is formed within the epiblast tissue prior to the closing of the proamniotic canal by the amniotic folds
the channels in the lymph node medulla that separate the medullary cords and are crossed by a reticulum of cells and fibers and bounded by littoral cells ;  lymph flows through the medullary sinus from the cortical sinuses and into the efferent lymphatic vessels
the dense rope - like structures of lymphatic tissue located between the medullary sinuses in the medulla of a lymph node
the primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing limbs ,  autopods and digits ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to limb connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with myotome cells .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing cardiac structures
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing pancreas
a ganglion that is part of a abdominal segment of trunk .
an inter - phalangeal joint that connects a proximal phalanx to either a medial or distal phalanx .
an inter - phalangeal joint that connects a distal phalanx to either a medial or proximal phalanx .
a renal tubule is a tube that filters ,  re - absorbs and secretes substances to rid an organism of waste and to play a role in fluid homeostasis .
a serous sac that has the pleura and the pleural cavity as parts .
the many - lobed berry cluster of cells that is the terminous of a gland where the secretion is produced is acinar in form .
a solid cord of prostate epithelium .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a primitive urogenital sinus .
mesenchyme that surrounds primitive urogenital sinus .
an epithelium that is part of a embryonic cloaca .
a specific region of the urogenital sinus epithelium into the area in which the prostate gland will develop .
the part of the uterus above the isthmus and below the orifices of the uterine tubes .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
a division of the stomach .
outer portion of the renal cortex .
intermediate segment of the autopod ,  between the mesopodial region and and acropodial region .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a mesopodium .
subdivision of skeleton that consists of endochondral elements distal to the zeugopodial skeletal elements which constitute the proximal region of the posterior autopod skeleton [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that consists of the endochondral elements distal to the anterior limb / fin zeugopodial skeletal elements which constitute the proximal region of the anterior autopod skeleton [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
a renal ,  cortical lobule ,  consisting of the ascending or descending limbs of the loop of henle or of the collecting tubules ;  medullary rays are regions where parallel arrays of straight tubules travel perpendicular to the capsule and extend from the cortex to the medulla .
an artery that supplies a renal lobe .
the interlobar veins are veins of the renal circulation which drain the renal lobes .
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the majority of the mesodermal component of the right ventricle ,  arterial pole  ( outflow tract )  and venous pole  ( inflow tract )  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing face .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a nerve connecting eye with brain .
a portion of an organ ,  such as the liver ,  lung ,  breast ,  or brain .
the portion of a kidney consisting of a renal medullary pyramid and the renal cortex above it [ mp ]  .
the portion of a renal lobe consisting of nephrons grouped around a single medullary ray and draining into a single collecting duct ;  human kidneys have multilobular ,  multipapillary architecture while mice and rats have unilobular ,  unipapillary kidneys
an anatomical wall that is part of a ureter .
the region demarcating the renal medulla from the surrounding cortex ;  end - stage renal failure may be associated with loss of the normal corticomedullary boundary
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the epithelium of the ureter
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_with a post - embryonic stage .
cranial ectodermal placode with potential to develop into a component of the nervous system ,  such as nerves or ganglia .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a urinary bladder .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a oropharynx .
an epithelium that is part of a pancreatic duct .
the junction between the ureter and the renal pelvis of the kidney
the valve - like structure found at the site of entry of the ureter into the urinary bladder ,  normally displays an oblique angulation through the detrusor to avoid reflux of urine up the ureters and the kidney
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a rathke's pouch .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
a small cluster of cells of various types which form a discrete structure ,  largely delimited by a morphological boundary and whose components work together to make the whole structure capable of a specific function .
a regional part of brain consisting of multiple brain regions that are not related through a simple volummetric part of hierarchy ,  e .g . ,  basal ganglia [ nif ]  .
subcortical masses of gray matter in the forebrain and midbrain that are richly interconnected and so viewed as a functional system .
the dorsal portion of the embryonic first endodermal pharyngeal pouch ;  it develops into the middle ear cavity .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
the portion of the tongue in front of the terminal sulcus .
the fundus glands  ( or fundic glands ,  or gastric glands )  are found in the body and fundus of the stomach .
an organ of the digestive tract that is capable of retaining and storing food
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch maxillary component .
the sum total of mesenchymal tissue in the pharyngeal arch region .
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
a mucosa that is part of a dorsum of tongue .
a compound organ that has the potential to develop into a tongue .
on the lateral wall of the nasal part of the pharynx is the pharyngeal opening of auditory tube  ( pharyngeal ostium )  ,  somewhat triangular in shape ,  and bounded behind by a firm prominence ,  the torus or cushion ,  caused by the medial end of the cartilage of the tube which elevates the mucous membrane .
an anatomical space with at least one opening to another space or the exterior .
a portion of the external acoustic meatus epithelium which makes up the outer  ( cuticular )  layer of the tympanic membrane
the intermediate fibrous layer of the tympanic membrane .
organ system subdivision that consists primarily of chromaffin cells and their supporting structures .
one of the 5 distinct and partially overlapping functional domains of the premigratory neural crest .
an epithelium consisting of cuboidal epithelial cells .
an extrahepatic bile duct that has the potential to develop into a common hepatic duct .
mesenchyme that has the potential to develop into a dermis .
a structure that will develop into a diaphragm .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a falx cerebri .
a multi - tissue structure that has the potential to develop into a meninx of hindbrain .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a metencephalon .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a myelencephalon .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a facial nucleus .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a superior salivatory nucleus .
a femur endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the autopod  ( e .g .
any portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of the conducting system of heart or the purkinje fibers .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and that release hormones in response to neural stimuli
a circumventricular organ that is capable of secreting substances into the cerebrospinal fluid .
a circumventricular organ that is capable of monitoring the levels of substances to the cerebrospinal fluid .
a sex cord that is part of a indifferent gonad .
a bodily secretion that is produced by a seminal vesicle .
the numerous mucous - secreting glands found in several female mammalian species  ( including rodents and humans )  on the anterior wall of the vagina ,  around the lower end of the urethra ,  and possessing a common paraurethral duct which opens  ( on each side )  near the external urethral orifice ;  they are homologous with the prostate gland in males ,  have highly variable anatomy ,  and are believed to be the source of the female ejaculate ,  a lubricating fluid with a similar consistency to male prostatic fluid that is expelled through the urethra during sexual stimulation ;  like the male prostate ,  these glands are susceptible to infection  ( skenitis )  ,  cyst development ,  and cancer
the skene's ducts are a pair of ducts leading from the skene's glands to the surface of the vulva ,  to the left and right of the urethral opening .
any gland ,  other than the gonad ,  associated with the genital tract ,  such as the ampulla of the ductus deferens and the bulbourethral ,  prostate and vesicular glands of the male .
one of a pair of ducts leading from the bartholin's glands to the surface of the vulva
a duct that is part of a bulbo - urethral gland .
a mucous secretion that is produced by glands in the epidermis .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a lymphatic vessel .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a blood vessel .
the distal end of the tail
an anatomical cluster that composed_primarily_of a strand of hair .
a collection of hairs that is part of a face .
the collection of hair that grows on the chin ,  cheeks and neck of human beings .
a strand of hair that is part of a face .
the portion of the left ventricular outflow tract delineated by the sinotubular ridge superiorly and the bases of the valve leaflets inferiorly ;  it comprises the aortic sinuses ,  the aortic valve leaflets ,  the commissures ,  and the interleaflet triangles
a trabecula that is part of a liver
a structure formed from the primary sex cords in females ,  counterpart of the rete testis in males .
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the penile urethra
an urethral gland that is part of a female urethra .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
the paired arterial structures of the embryo that supplies each developing somite via efferent segmental arteries ;  the dorsal aortae articulate with the umbilical arteries ,  which return mixed blood to the villi of the chorion for reoxygenation
one of the laterally paired arteries that supply the gonads .
an anatomical boundary that corresponds to some physical discontinuity .
a vasculature that is part of a post - anal tail .
apparatus located between the lungs and the buccal cavity .
a pupil that is part of a left eye .
a pupil that is part of a right eye .
a nuclear complex which in mammals consists of four parts ,  the hypothalamus ,  epithalamus ,  ventral thalamus ,  and dorsal thalamus [ wp , modified ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
the connective tissue that supports the lobules and follicles of the thyroid gland .
the musculus uvulae  ( azygos uvulae )  is a muscle of the soft palate .
an exocrine gland whose secretions are excreted via exocytosis from secretory cells into an epithelial - walled duct or ducts and thence onto a bodily surface or into the lumen ;  the gland releases its product and no part of the gland is lost or damaged .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch maxillary mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 3rd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a rhombencephalon neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
one of the three blood vessels ,  usually one large umbilical vein and two small umbilical arteries ,  buried within wharton's jelly ,  that transport blood to and from the placenta ,  where exchange between the mother and fetus takes place ;  the umbilical vein carries oxygenated ,  nutrient - rich blood from the placenta to the fetus ,  and the umbilical arteries carry deoxygenated ,  nutrient - depleted blood from the fetus to the placenta .
a group of bones comprised of hyoid body and two pairs of cornua  ( i .e .
a zone of bone organ that is part of a hyoid bone .
any anatomical space that is part of a vertebral column .
a minute orifice on the summit of the papillae lacrimales ,  which is the commencement point of the lacrimal canaliculi .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
portion of neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain .
an endothelium that is part of a sclera .
a stroma that is part of a sclera .
mesenchyme surrounding the developing optic cup which develops into the sclera .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesizes but does not accumulate keratin .
one of the three major regions of the conjunctiva .
an ossified element investing the upper eyelid .
developing anatomical structure that develops into the eyeball and associated structures .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that is part of a orbital region .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb / fin bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing eyelid .
an epithelium that is part of a handplate .
mesenchyme that is part of a extraembryonic membrane .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a maxillary process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a maxillary process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch maxillary mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 3rd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
a otic capsule endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
the first step in ossification of the cartilage is that the cartilage cells ,  at the point where ossification is commencing and which is termed a ossification center ,  enlarge and arrange themselves in rows .
an arch - shaped structure of the vertebra that extends dorsally  ( neural arch )  or ventrally  ( hemal arch )  from the vertebral centrum
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes indirect development and includes elements that develop as a replacement or substitution of other elements or tissues .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes direct development and includes elements that either develop in association with the basement membrane of the ectoderm or are homologous with such elements ;  includes dermatocranium ,  components of the appendicular skeleton ,  teeth and tooth - like elements of the oropharynx ,  and integumentary elements .
skeletal tissue that is part of the exoskeleton and derived from an odontogenic papilla .
a vasculature that is part of a conjunctiva .
a vein that is part of a conjunctiva .
the smallest anatomical unit of the lung ,  measuring 0 .50 to 2 .00 cm in diameter .
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
mesenchyme that develops_from a somatopleure .
mesenchyme that develops_from a splanchnopleure .
the superior tarsal muscle is a smooth muscle adjoining the levator palpebrae superioris muscle that helps to raise the upper eyelid .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a hypopharynx .
the segment of the rib that connects to a vertebra [ mp ]  .
an organ cavity that is part of a urethra .
the subserous connective tissue of the pelvic floor of the supracervical portion of the uterus .
one of the branches of the splenic artery [ mp ] 
one of the veins that feed the splenic vein
any layer of the epidermis that is superior to the stratum basale
the integrated unit  ( of the eye )  that consists of the conjunctiva ,  the corneal surface ,  and the ocular mucosal adnexa including the lid margins and the meibomian gland openings ,  the lacrimal glands and the lacrimal drainage system ,  all which are critical to maintain ocular surface integrity and provide protection from external antigens and pathogenic microorganisms .
encapsulated adipose tissue found in the groin
encapsulated adipose tissue found on the dorsal side of the peritoneum
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the epididymis
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the extension of the subserous coat of the uterus laterally between the layers of the broad ligament
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the fold of peritoneal tissue that extends from the stomach to the posterior abdominal wall after associating with the transverse colon
an orifice that is part of a lower urinary tract .
a naris that is located inside the nasal cavity and connects to the pharynx .
opening / conduit between the nasal cavity and the oropharynx via the roof of the mouth .
the ciliary processes are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid ,  i .e .
a bone that is shaped as a broad flat plate and composed of two thin layers of compact tissue enclosing between them a variable quantity of cancellous tissue ,  which is the location of red bone marrow .
a simple columnar epithelium that looks stratified but is not ,  because its cells are arranged with their nuclei at different levels .
epithelium composed of a single layer of cells ,  appearing as layered because the column - shaped cells vary in height so the nuclei are at different levels .
the inner layer of the dura mater surrounding the brain .
the intracranial dura mater ,  consisting of two layers: the outer periosteal layer which normally always adheres to the periosteum of the bones of the cranial vault ;  and the inner meningeal layer which in most places is fused with the outer .
skeletal element that forms as a replacement or substitution of another element or tissue .
a vessel of the microcirculature ,  lying between the arterioles and venules ;  includes capillaries  ( blood and lymphatic )  ,  metarterioles and arteriovenous anastomoses .
an organ cavity that surrounded_by a bone .
an epithelial tube that is fated to become a nephron .
the metanephric cortex is the outer region of the metanephros [ go ]  .
anatomical cluster which give rise to mature mesonephric nephrons .
a primitive nephron that is part of a metanephros .
cluster of cells comprising a portion of tissue which gives rise to new mesonephric nephrons .
an appendage segment that is part of a limb / fin .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a tarsal bone .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a tarsal bone .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the autopodium  -  i .e .
the metacarpus is the intermediate part of the manus skeleton that is located between the phalanges  ( bones of the fingers )  distally and the carpus which forms the connection to the forearm .
limb segment that consists of the long bones of the pes .
subdivision of skeleton that corresponds to metapodium region ,  between acropodial skeleton and mesopdoial skeleton .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 1 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 1 .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit mesenchyme .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the manual autopodium  -  i .e .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 1 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 1 .
mesenchyme of the carpal region that contributes to the tarsal skeleton .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the pedal autopodium  -  i .e .
mesenchyme of the digit region .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an forelimb zeugopod region .
an organism subdivision that includes both an appendage and its associated girdle region .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pectoral appendicular skeleton and the pectoral girdle .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pelvic appendicular skeleton and the pelvic girdle .
skeletal subdivision that is a segment of the limb skeleton .
a iliac endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a pubic endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the subdivision of the skeleton of either the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb zeugopod region .
a orbitosphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a bone that is part of an appendage girdle complex  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a pectoral complex .
a bone that is part of a pelvic complex .
the collection of all meningeal layers that line a central nervous system .
a sacral vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a sacral vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along an axis perpedicular to the main body anterior - posterior axis .
the supraglenoid tubercle is a region of the scapula to which the long head of the biceps brachii muscle attaches .
a calcaneum endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a calcaneum endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a radius bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a ulna .
a radius - ulna endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a tibia .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a tibia .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a fibula .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a fibula .
a skin of neck that is part of a throat .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of cartilage tissue .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of pre - cartilage tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
muscles of the pelvic girdle ,  hindlimb or pelvic fin .
a muscle of a pectoral girdle ,  pectoral fin or anterior limb .
am unpaired external naris that lies in the midline of the head .
hermaphroditic organism that produces both male and female gametes at the same time .
skeletal element that is often isolated ,  small ,  and variable in composition .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements  ( i .e .
skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
a muscle organ that has_muscle_insertion a occipital bone and has_muscle_origin a sternum .
any muscle organ that is part of either the head or the neck .
a thin layer of cartilage ,  usually hyaline ,  on the articular surface of bones in synovial joints .
a cartilage element that is part of a splanchnocranium .
a ligament that is part of a knee joint .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a right pelvic girdle region .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a left pelvic girdle region .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
the cartilaginous form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the pre - cartilaginous form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the lacrimal nerve is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 5 .
a synovial joint that is part of a pelvic girdle region .
a synovial joint that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the humeroulnar joint ,  is part of the elbow - joint or the olecron joint ,  between the ulna and humerus bones is the simple hinge - joint ,  which allows for movements of flexion ,  extension and circumduction .
a hinge joint between the head of the radius and the capitulum of the humerus .
a joint that connects the tibia and the fibula .
the tarsometatarsal articulations are arthrodial joints in the pes .
the carpometacarpal joints  ( cmc )  are joints in the wrist that articulates the distal row of carpal bones and the proximal bases of the metacarpal bones .
a skeletal joint that connects a laryngeal cartilage .
a skeletal joint that connects two adjacent metacarpals [ fma , modified ]  .
a skeletal joint that connects two carpal bones .
a joint that connects two adjacent metatarsals
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
a cartilage element that lies between two successive vertebral centra .
ligament that joins successive centra .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the postcranial axial skeleton plus associated joints .
any synovial joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
ossicle that is part of the appendicular skeleton .
ossicle that is part of the axial skeleton .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the kidney and the ureters .
gland of the lamina epithelialis mucosae which perforate the lamina muscularis ,  with their adenomeres located in the submucosal connective tissue .
surface structure that extends from the chin covering pharynx and larynx .
subdivision of skull that consists of the facial bones .
the skull can be divided into two: the neurocranium and the facial skeleton
a bone that is part of a neurocranium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
synovial joint that articulates bones of upper and lower jaw .
a sphincter muscle that is part of the gastrointestinal system
a lamina propria that is part of a large intestine .
ophthalmic veins are veins which drain the eye .
an epithelium that is part of a parathyroid gland .
a muscle layer that is part of a large intestine .
the sacrococcygeal symphysis  ( sacrococcygeal articulation ,  articulation of the sacrum and coccyx )  is an amphiarthrodial joint ,  formed between the oval surface at the apex of the sacrum ,  and the base of the coccyx .
a muscle layer that is part of a small intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a urachus .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing urachus .
a root of cranial nerve that is part of a vagus nerve .
a multi cell part structure that is part of a central nervous system .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
the mastoid process is a conical prominence projecting from the undersurface of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone .
synovial sac which surrounds parts of one or more tendons .
the most anterior region of the braincase .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the appendicular skeleton plus associated joints .
a bone that is part of a autopod region .
scent glands are exocrine glands found in most mammals .
a carpometacarpal joint that connects to metacarpal 1 .
the part of the trunk that is in the dorsum [ cjm ]  .
a nail that is part of a manual digit 1 .
a nail that is part of a manual digit 5 .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit 1 .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit 5 .
the pharyngeal aponeurosis  ( or pharyngobasilar fascia ,  or fibrous coat )  ,  is situated between the mucous and muscular layers .
the submucous layer of the wall of the uterine tube .
a partion of white matter that is part of a telencephalon .
a portion of gray matter that is part of a telencephalon .
a anatomical surface that is part of a mandible .
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
a lymph vasculature that is part of a head .
the brachiocephalicus is a long and flat ,  complex of muscles that extends from the lower half of the humeral shaft to the head and neck .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis or clitoris .
a zone of skin that is part of a prepuce of clitoris .
the external sphincter muscle of urethra  ( or sphincter urethrae membranaceae )  surrounds the whole length of the membranous portion of the urethra ,  and is enclosed in the fasci of the urogenital diaphragm .
the external sphincter muscle of female urethra is a muscle which controls urination .
the pudendal nerve is a somatic nerve in the pelvic region that innervates the external genitalia of both sexes ,  as well as sphincters for the bladder and the rectum .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a esophagus .
a tube lumen that is part of a mesonephric duct .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb or fin .
proximal element of a free limb skeleton consisting of the femur and humerus in the forelimb stylopodium and hindlimb stylopodium respectively [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
section of the forelimb skeleton located between the stylopodium and the autopodium .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
odontogenic tissue that is collagen - rich and characteristic of vertebrate teeth and tooth - like structures  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  deposited by preodontoblasts and odontoblasts that are typically excluded from the matrix .
odontogenic tissue that is avascular non - mineralized matrix that is deposited by preameloblast and ameloblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
cartilage tissue that is not mineralized .
a commissure that is part of a diencephalon .
an axon tract that is part of a diencephalon .
a tooth that is attached to a maxilla [ tao , modified ]  .
tooth that is attached to a dentary / mandible [ tao , modified ]  .
a subdivision of the head that corresponds to the jaw skeleton ,  containing both soft tissue ,  skeleton and teeth  ( when present )  .
any bone that is part of the upper jaw skeleton .
a gingiva that is part of a upper jaw region .
a gingiva that is part of a lower jaw region .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
limb extensor that runs from ilium to femur .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
a vertebra in the trunk region .
a tarsal bone that connected_to a hindlimb zeugopod skeleton .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
a cardiac valve leaflet that is part of a aortic valve .
a cardiac valve leaflet that is part of a pulmonary valve .
paired structures in the embryo that represent the final stage of development of the caudal end of the external genitals before sexual differentiation .
a genital swelling that is part of a female reproductive system .
a genital swelling that is part of a male reproductive organ .
anatomical projection that is composed of cartilage tissue .
an anatomical space that is part of a bone of lower jaw .
an anatomical space that is part of a bone of upper jaw .
a cranial nerve nucleus that is associated with a vagus nerve .
a neural nucleus that is part of the spinal cord .
a nerve that is part of a head .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
an ectodermal placode that gives rise to any of the cutaneous appendages that protrude from the skin epidermis  ( heair ,  feathers ,  epidermal scales )  .
superficial fascia is found in the subcutis in most regions of the body ,  blending with the reticular layer of the dermis .
an anatomical junction that divides and overlaps with and atrium and a ventricle in the heart .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense connective tissue is mainly composed of collagen type i .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of glandular acini which communicate with the vestibule of vagina .
a duct that is part of a minor vestibular gland .
a duct that is part of a vestibular gland .
a duct that is part of a sebaceous gland .
an acinus that is part of a sebaceous gland .
an acinus that is part of a parotid gland .
an acinus that is part of a salivary gland .
an acinus that is part of a mammary gland .
an acinus that is part of a lacrimal gland .
an acinus that is part of a exocrine gland .
the internal auditory meatus  ( also internal acoustic meatus ,  internal auditory canal ,  and internal acoustic canal )  is a canal in the petrous bone of the temporal bone of the skull that carries nerves from inside the cranium towards the middle and inner ear compartments namely cranial nerve vii and cranial nerve viii .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of aorta tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of pulmonary tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of bone tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of tendon tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of corneal stroma that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the lateral border that separates the dorsum from the inferior surface of the tongue on each side ,  the two borders meeting anteriorly at the apex . .
a muscle layer that is part of a wall of esophagus .
front  ( ventral )  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
a organ cavity that is part of a vagina .
epimysium is a layer of connective tissue which ensheaths the entire muscle .
masses of developing blood cells attached to endothelium in the yolk sac
nerve fibers which project from the central nervous system to autonomic ganglia .
a cholinergic axonal fiber projecting from the cns to a sympathetic ganglion
a cholinergic axonal fibers projecting from the cns to a parasympathetic ganglion
hair in the nose
an epidermal invagination that has as parts a hair follicle ,  a sebaceous gland ,  and arrector pili muscle
a region of the stomach that is lined with glandular epithelium .
a hepatic vein that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic vein that is part of a right lobe of liver .
an articular capsule that is part of the glenohumeral joint .
a skeletal joint that connects a radius bone and connects a carpal skeleton .
a skeletal ligament that connects the fibula to the calcaneus
a skeletal ligament that connects a tibia and connects a tarsal skeleton .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manus .
an epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manus .
an epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manus .
a joint that connects the bones of the crus to the proximal tarsal bones
the aggregate of the coelemic cavity lumen plus the membranes that line the lumen .
the cavity within a myotome
a tooth that is on the roof of the mouth .
any bone that is part of a palate .
a subdivision of skeletal system that subdivision_of a hard palate .
bone that forms as a replacement of another structural tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a patella .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a patella .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a bronchus .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a main bronchus .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lobar bronchus .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a segmental bronchus .
a salivary gland that is part of a cheek .
anatomical system that consists of the integumental system plus all mucosae and submucosae .
a segment of the autopod consisting of both acropodial region and metapodial region ,  but excluding the mesopodial / basopodial region .
a digitopodium region that is part of a manus [ obol ]  .
a digitopodium region that is part of a pes [ obol ]  .
a subdivision of the autopod skeleton consisting of both acropodial skeleon and metapodial skeleton ,  but excluding the mesopodial / basopodial skeleton .
a subdivision of the manus skeleton consisting of both manual acropodial skeleton and metacarpal skeleton ,  but excluding the carpal skeleton .
a subdivision of the pes skeleton consisting of both pedal acropodial skeleton and metatarsal skeleton ,  but excluding the tarsal skeleton .
the buccal fat pad is one of several encapsulated fat masses in the cheek .
blood that remains in the placenta and in the attached umbilical cord after childbirth [ wp ]  .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a stomach .
an apocrine gland that is part of a skin of body .
a zone of skin that is part of a craniocervical region .
the veins that run parallel to the phrenic arteries which include the two superior and two inferior phrenic veins .
network of tubes that carries blood through the distensible musculomembranous organ that serves to collect and store urine excreted by the kidneys [ mp ] 
external opening or orifice of the urethra through which urine and seminal fluid  ( in males only )  leave the body ;  in males the meatus presents as a vertical slit normally positioned at the tip of glans penis ;  in females the meatus is located between the clitoris and the vagina in the vulvular vestibule of the female genitalia [ mp ]  .
a urethral meatus that is part of a male urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the usually crescent - shaped opening of the urinary bladder into the urethra ,  placed at the anteroinferior angle  ( apex )  of the urinary bladder trigone
a follicular lumen is the closed cavity within a follicle of the thyroid gland .
mucus - secreting glands in the mucosa of the uterine cervix
lining of the head of the uterus  ( cervix )  ;  contains large branched glands ;  does not undergo sloughing .
the part of the cervix uteri that protrudes into the vagina and is lined with stratified squamous epithelium .
a glandular epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix .
a epithelium that is part of a ectocervix .
the glandular epithelium that lines the endocervix .
region of cervical epithelium where columnar epithelium of endocervic and the stratified non - keratinising squamous epithelium of the ectocervic meet
an artery that originates from the abdominal aorta
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
the nasal glands are the seromucous glands in the respiratory region of the nasal mucous membrane .
a holocrine gland that is part of the pilosebaceous unit of a hair located in the area around the anus .
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the mammary gland
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the femur
a epithelial sac that is part of a rathke's pouch .
one of the pair of mesenchymal swellings  ( folds )  located on either side of the cloacal membrane during the indifferent stage of embryonic development ;  cranial to the cloacal membrane the folds unite to form the genital tubercle ;  caudally the folds are subdivided into urogenital folds anteriorly and anal folds posteriorly
a mucosa that is part of a urethra .
the slit - like opening of either ureter into the bladder ;  normally ,  the two ureteral orifices are placed at the posterolateral angles of the urinary bladder trigone while the internal urethral orifice is placed at its anteroinferior angle  ( apex )  ;  wide gaping usually indicates vesicoureteral reflux
one of five swellings formed during the development of the face
the median slit located inferior and posterior to the external urethral orifice in the female ;  the exit for menstrual flow and birth and the entrance for the penis during sexual intercourse ;  the size and appearance of the vaginal orifice varies inversely with that of the hymen  ( g . membrane )  ,  a thin fold of mucous membrane that surrounds the vaginal orifice
an artery of the neck
the deep cervical artery  ( profunda cervicalis )  is an artery of the neck .
keratinized stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesize and accumulate keratin .
the lymphocytic cell population present in the mucosa of the nasopharyngeal duct of some animals .
a broad fold of peritoneum that extends from the side of the uterus to the wall of the pelvis .
a zone of skin that is part of the area surrounding the anus .
the cauda equina is a structure within the lower end of the spinal column of most vertebrates ,  that consists of nerve roots and rootlets from above .
any exocrine gland whose secretion consists of its own disintegrated secretory cells along with its secretory product ;  holocrine secretions are produced in the cytoplasm of the cell and released by the rupture of the plasma membrane ,  which destroys the cell and results in the secretion of the product into the lumen .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a urachus .
skeletal subdivision consisting of all the skeletal elements in a single fin .
the segment of the autopod that is distal to the metapodial region and consists of the digits .
the segment of the manus that is distal to the metacarpal region and consists of the manual digits  ( fingers )  .
the segment of the pes that is distal to the metatarsal region and consists of the pedal digits  ( toes )  .
a bone that is part of a the digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone that is part of a the manual digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone that is part of a the pedal digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone element that is part of a jaw region .
a epithelium that is part of a thyroid follicle .
a muscle layer that is part of an intestine .
a nerve plexus that is part of a sympathetic nervous system .
a layer of tissue between the muscularis and serosa .
a muscular coat that is part of a jejunum .
a muscular coat that is part of a urinary bladder .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system venous blood vessel .
a layer of microvilli ,  thin cylindrical membrane - covered projections on the surface of an animal cell containing a core bundle of actin filaments [ go , modified ] 
a microvillus layer that is striated and found in the intestine .
blood - forming tissue ,  consisting of reticular fibers and cells .
the sclera and cornea form the fibrous tunic of the bulb of the eye ;  the sclera is opaque ,  and constitutes the posterior five - sixths of the tunic ;  the cornea is transparent ,  and forms the anterior sixth .
a anatomical line that adjacent_to a epithelium and adjacent_to a mesenchyme .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a cloaca .
the opening of the cloacal chamber to the outside of the organism .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a terminal part of digestive tract .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
triangular calcified papillae  ( often five )  placed radially around the anus of some holothuriidae
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pectoral complex  -  i .e .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic complex  -  i .e .
the posterior region of the neck ,  including the suboccipital region .
a gland that is part of a cloaca .
a mucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a cloaca .
a submucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a cloaca .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a vagina .
a muscular coat that is part of a duodenum .
a muscular coat that is part of a colon .
a muscular coat that is part of a anal canal .
a serous membrane that is part of a vermiform appendix .
a serous membrane that is part of a fallopian tube .
a serous membrane that is part of a fundus of stomach .
a adventitia that is part of a esophagus .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a umbilical cord .
a anatomical junction that connects a stomach and connects a duodenum .
a mucosa that is part of a gastroduodenal junction .
the subdivision of the digestive tract that consists of the colon and the rectum .
a mucosa that is part of a colorectum .
a depression on the ventral side of the femur ,  at the knee joint ,  between the condyles .
a depression or fissure in the surface of the brain .
a vein that is part of a abdomen .
a vein that drains a lip .
a nonskeletal ligament that is part of a liver .
any vein within the general circulation that transports blood back to the right atrium of the heart .
one of two arteries  ( anterior and posterior choroidal artery )  that supply blood to the choroid plexus ,  optic tract ,  hippocampus ,  globus pallidus ,  and other various brain regions .
a gland that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a telencephalic ventricle that is in_the_left_side_of a telencephalon .
a telencephalic ventricle that is in_the_right_side_of a telencephalon .
a depression in front of the epiglottis ,  in which food is temporarily gathered as the animal chews .
the layer of the ovarian stroma lying immediately beneath the tunica albuginea ,  composed of connective tissue cells and fibers ,  among which are scattered primary and secondary  ( antral )  follicles in various stages of development ;  the cortex varies in thickness according to the age of the individual ,  becoming thinner with advancing years ;  included in the follicles are the cumulus oophorus ,  membrana granulosa  ( and the granulosa cells inside it )  ,  corona radiata ,  zona pellucida ,  and primary oocyte ;  the zona pellucida ,  theca of follicle ,  antrum and liquor folliculi are also contained in the follicle ;  also in the cortex is the corpus luteum derived from the follicles .
highly vascular stroma found in the center of the ovary that forms from embryonic mesenchyme and contains blood vessels ,  lymphatic vessels ,  and nerves ;  this stroma forms the tissue of the hilum by which the ovarian ligament is attached ,  and through which the blood vessels enter ;  it does not contain any ovarian follicles .
glands of moll ,  also known as ciliary glands ,  are modified apocrine sweat glands that are found on the margin of the eyelid .
any gland that is part of an eyelid .
any of the sebaceous glands that are in the eyelid .
the secretory unit of a serous gland .
a major organism subdivisionthat is the entire part of an anatomical structure ventral to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same horizontal plane .
a future glans that is part of a male genital tubercle .
a future glans that is part of a female genital tubercle .
the precursor of the urethra
a epithelial tube that develops from a mullerian duct in a male .
a diaphysis that is part of a fibula [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a diaphysis that is part of a tibia .
anatomical cavity that is the lumen of the skull and contains the brain .
the sphenopetrosal fissure  ( or sphenopetrosal suture )  is the cranial suture between the sphenoid bone and the petrous portion of the temporal bone .
the upper one third of esophagus in which the muscle layer is composed of muscle cells of the striated type .
a thickened round patch of lymphoid tissue located at the ileocecal junction adjacent to the sacculus rotundus .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any fascia tissue that is part of the neck region .
a fascia that is part of a abdomen .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a cloaca .
a caudal vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a caudal vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a cervical vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a cervical vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a lumbar vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a lumbar vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
the space that surrounds an organism .
a section through the tube or network of tubes that connects the ovaries to the outside of the body .
the anatomical space that is enclosed by a stomach .
a anatomical cavity that is part of a ear vesicle .
a metapodium bone that is part of a digit 1 plus metapodial segment .
a metapodium bone that is part of a digit 5 plus metapodial segment .
short bones are designated as those bones that are as wide as they are long .
ossicle that develops within bands of dense ,  regular connective tissue  ( e .g . ,  tendons and ligaments )  .
a sesamoid element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a epithelium that is part of a intestinal villus .
the prostate gland lobe that is located on the lateral side of the organ .
a gland that is part of the gular region  ( throat ) 
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone of the skull .
an anatomical space which is the lumen of some anatomical conduit and connects two or more spaces together [ fma , modified ]  .
periosteum that is part of a skull .
lymphoid tissue located in the appendix .
vascular endothelium found in blood vessels of the blood - brain - barrier .
vascular endothelium found in colon blood vessels .
the epithelium that forms the surface of the tonsil dips into the underlying connective tissue in numerous places ,  forming crypts kown as tonsillar crypts .
epithelium lining the exocrine pancreas .
a strand of hair that is part of a axilla .
musculature of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the primary axis ,  typically the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
anatomical projection that is part of the integumentl system .
a tubular passage that extends from the primitive pit into the head process during the early stages of embryonic development in mammals .
the deep layer  ( fascia of scarpa )  is a layer of the anterior abdominal wall .
the dartos fascia is a fat - free layer of smooth muscular fiber outside the external spermatic fascia but below the skin .
a dartos muscle that is part of a male reproductive system .
a dartos muscle that is part of a female reproductive system .
fluid contained within the notochordal canal
a metaphysis that is part of a ulna .
a metaphysis that is part of a metaphysis .
a metaphysis that is part of a tibia .
a metaphysis that is part of a radius bone .
a diaphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone .
a organ component layer that is part of a integumental system .
a blood that is part of a artery .
a blood that is part of a vein .
a blood that is part of a capillary .
one of two openings in the uterine cervix .
opening of uterine cervix into the body of the uterus .
opening of uterine cervix into the vagina .
the cavity formed by the walls of the cervix .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
great vessels is a term used to refer collectively to the large vessels that bring blood to and from the heart .
a organ cavity that is part of a uterus .
a nipple that is in_the_left_side_of a body proper .
a nipple that is in_the_right_side_of a body proper .
a diaphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone .
a zone of skin that is part of a palmar / plantar part of autopod .
a zone of skin that is part of a palmar part of manus .
a zone of skin that is part of a skin of pes .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the telencephalon .
a collection of hairs that is part of a craniocervical region .
the entrance of the larynx is a triangular opening ,  narrow in front ,  wide behind ,  and sloping obliquely downward and backward .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the simple cuboidal epithelium lining the lumen of kidney collecting ducts .
a papilla that contain taste buds ,  including the fungiform ,  foliate ,  and circumvallate papillae .
a muscular coat that is part of a ileum .
a sweat gland that is part of the skin of the palmar part of the manus or plantar part of the pes
sweat that is produced by the glands on the palmar and plantar surfaces .
sweat that is produced by the glands of the axilla .
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the uterus
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a sinusoid .
a sinusoidal space that is part of a hepatic sinusoid .
any member of the network of tubes that return blood from the renal tissues to the systemic circulation .
a taste bud that is located on the tongue ,  situated on a gustatory papilla .
a gustatory epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a gustatory epithelium that is part of a roof of mouth .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the peritoneal cavity .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
any of the parasympathetic ganglia of the cardiac plexus between the arch of the aorta and the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery .
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the kidney
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all skeletal elements in the thoracic region of the trunk .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all ribs and rib joints in an organism .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the central canal of the spinal cord along its anterior - posterior axis .
the white laminae of cerebellum is subdivision of the cerebellar cortex comprised of myelinated axons lying deep to the granule cell layer of the cerebellar cortex .
part of spinal cord central canal contained in the thoracic spinal cord .
part of central canal contained within the cervical spinal cord .
part of central canal lying within the lumbar spinal cord .
part of spinal cord central canal contained in the sacral spinal cord .
a ventral horn of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a gray matter of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a white matter of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a nerve root that is part of a accessory xi nerve .
a ventral horn of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a gray matter of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a white matter of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a sulcus of brain that is part of a frontal cortex .
a gyrus that is part of a occipital lobe .
a white matter that is part of a medulla oblongata .
a distal interphalangeal joint that is part of a digit 5 .
the angular vein formed by the junction of the frontal vein and supraorbital vein ,  runs obliquely downward ,  on the side of the root of the nose ,  to the level of the lower margin of the orbit ,  where it becomes the anterior facial vein .
any of three grooves in the temporal lobe including the inferior ,  middle ,  and superior temporal sulci .
the deep auricular artery often arises in common with the anterior tympanic artery .
a venous system that overlaps a umbilical cord and is part of a entire extraembryonic component .
a vascular system that overlaps a umbilical cord and is part of a entire extraembryonic component .
a epithelium that is part of a frontonasal prominence .
a unilaminar epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a anal region .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pleuroperitoneal canal .
a epithelium that is part of a median lingual swelling .
a duct that is located between lobules ,  within the thin connective tissue septa that separate lobules .
the secretory unit of a mucous gland .
a duct that is located within a lobule ,  with no more connective tissue intervening between ducts and secretory units  ( i .e . ,  acini or tubules )  than between adjacent secretory units .
a duct that is located between lobes ,  within conspicuous ,  thick connective tissue septa that separate lobes .
the domain of the diaphragm that is located dorsally and attaches to the vertebrae and surrounds the esophagus and aorta .
a crus of diaphragm that is in_the_right_side_of a diaphragm .
a crus of diaphragm that is in_the_left_side_of a diaphragm .
a blood vessel that drains from from an upper eyelid .
a blood vessel that drains from from an eyelid .
an artery that supplies blood to an eyelid .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive forebrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive midbrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive spinal cord
attached to the posterior border of the hard palate is a thin ,  firm fibrous lamella called the palatine aponeurosis ,  which supports the muscles and gives strength to the soft palate .
any muscle organ that is part of a cloaca .
the lingual septum consists of a vertical layer of fibrous tissue ,  extending throughout the entire length of the median plane of the tongue ,  though not quite reaching the dorsum .
any collection of muscles that is part of the forelimb stylopod region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic complex .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral complex .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral appendage  ( forelimb or pectoral fin )  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic appendage  ( hindlimb or pelvic fin )  .
a ring of fibrous tissue surrounding the optic nerve at its entrance at the apex of the orbit .
chorda tendinea which is attached to the leaflet of mitral valve and is continuous with the endocardium of papillary muscle of left ventricle .
chorda tendinea which is attached to the leaflet of tricuspid valve and is continuous with the endocardium of papillary muscle of right ventricle .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx .
white matter that is part of a brainstem  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that consists of skeletal muscle tissue ensheathed in epimysium ,  that develops from myotome and that is innervated by some somatic motor neuron .
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
one of the primary blood vessel sprouts that originate from the dorsal aorta and posterior cardinal vein and align dorsoventrally at the myotomal boundaries between somites .
junction between the cerebellum and the pons .
the space between a blood vessel and the pia mater .
the major preaxial endrochondral skeletal element in the anterior zeugopod .
a radius - ulna bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
major postaxial endrochondral skeletal element in the anterior zeugopod .
the major preaxial endochondral element in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a vertebral endochondral element in the cervical region of the vertebral column .
a vertebral endochondral element in the thoracic region of the vertebral column .
a lumbar vertebra bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a vertebra endochondral element that is part of the sacral region of the vertebral column .
the major postaxial endochondral element in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a calcaneum bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a rib bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a forelimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a hindlimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 1 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 5 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 1 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 5 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 1 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 5 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 1 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 5 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a carpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a tarsus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a femur bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a humerus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a iliac bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pubic bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a ischial bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a scapula bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a orbitosphenoid bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a sphenoid bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a limb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a endochondral element that is part of a autopod region .
a autopod endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a forelimb .
a proximal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a hindlimb .
a proximal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
visceral intrapericardial fat contiguous with the myocardial surface .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a prostate gland .
a large fat pad that is located at the base of the abdominal wall ,  in the falciform ligament of the liver .
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the mesentery
a strand of hair that is part of a autopod region .
a strand of hair that is part of a pes .
a strand of hair that is part of a manus .
a strand of hair that is part of a pinna .
a strand of hair that is part of a tail .
a strand of hair that is part of a ventrum .
a strand of hair that is part of a dorsum .
a gland that is typically found in or near the orbital region ,  in or around either the medial or lateral canthi ,  and is typically associated with secretions onto the eyeball or associated ducts .
a gland that is located in or around the ocular region ,  nearer the outer canthi .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a conjunctiva .
an eye consisting of multiple light - sensing organs
a blood vessel that is part of a endometrium .
a region of somite adjacent to presomitic mesoderm .
epithelium located in the intersomitic region .
the slightly constricted part of a tooth ,  between the crown and the root .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
a ligament that is part of a diaphragm .
the median arcuate ligament is a ligament under the diaphragm that connects the right and left crura of diaphragm .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  contributes to the circulation of lymph ,  blood or analogs .
a cluster in the epithalamus that consists of the pineal body and any associated structures ,  such as the parapineal gland or the parietal organ .
a zone of skin that is part of a digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pancreatic lobule that is in_the_left_side_of a exocrine pancreas .
a pancreatic lobule that is in_the_right_side_of a exocrine pancreas .
a basement membrane of epithelium that is part of a respiratory system .
a mesenchyme that is part of a urethra .
a valve that is part of a ureter .
the segment of either hepatic duct located in the hilum of the liver .
a lymph node that is part of a hypodermis .
a fat pad that is part of a pancreas .
a fat pad that is part of a mediastinum .
a zone of skin that is part of a axilla .
a zone of skin that is part of a external nose .
a fat pad that is part of a axilla .
a zone of skin that is part of a scrotum .
a hepatic artery that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic artery that is part of a right lobe of liver .
hat part of the duodenal wall traversed by the ductus choledochus ,  ductus pancreaticus ,  and ampulla .
a gyrus that is part of a frontal cortex .
a epithelium that is part of a anal canal .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a ejaculatory duct .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a inferior eyelid tarsus .
a epithelium that is part of a duct of salivary gland .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
any anatomical conduit which is part of the upper respiratory tract
an anatomical chamber that is part of the olfactory apparatus ,  consisting of cavity walls  ( nasal epithelium and mucosal layers )  and the space bounded anteriorly by the nares and posteriorly by the choanae ,  when these structures are present .
a zone of skin that is part of a autopod region .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a digit .
a epithelium that is part of a lobar bronchus of left lung .
a epithelium that is part of a lobar bronchus of right lung .
a blood vessel that is part of a liver .
a epithelium that is part of a ear .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a epithelium that is part of a middle ear .
a epithelium that is part of a external ear .
a epithelium that is part of a foregut .
a lamina propria that is part of a duodenum .
a lymph node that is part of a head .
any of the lymph nodes that are part of a face .
a zone of skin that is part of a heel .
the part of the foot that is the projection of the calcaneus .
a lymph node that is located close to the surface .
a lymph node that is located deeper within the organism ,  further from the surface .
the mastoid lymph nodes  ( retroauricular lymph nodes ,  posterior auricular glands )  ,  usually two in number ,  are situated on the mastoid insertion of the sternocleidomastoideus ,  beneath the auricularis posterior .
a lymph node that is part of a hindlimb .
a lymph node that is part of a forelimb .
the infrapatellar fat pad ,  also known as hoffa's fat pad ,  is a cylindrical piece of fat that is situated under and behind the patella bone within the knee .
a capillary that is part of a lung .
a breast that is part of a male organism .
subdivision of thorax which includes all structures from the skin to the costal pleura .
a strand of hair that is part of a head .
a strand of hair that is part of a trunk .
a hole in the diaphragm through which the esophagus passes
a stroma that is part of a liver .
a collagenous capsule covering the external surface of the liver .
a lymph node that is part of a bronchus .
is the sensory system for the sense of hearing .
skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
a epicondyle that is part of a humerus .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a fundus of stomach .
luminal space of the right ventricle of the heart .
a epithelium that is part of a male urethra .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of fundus of stomach .
a anatomical space that is part of a duodenum .
luminal space of the left atrium of the heart .
luminal space of the left ventricle of the heart .
a muscular coat that is part of a prostatic urethra .
a lamina propria that is part of a prostatic urethra .
a anatomical space that is part of a jejunum .
a epithelium that is part of a female urethra .
luminal space of the right atrium of the heart .
frontal lobe is the anterior - most of five lobes of the cerebral hemisphere .
subdivision of telencephalon which is one of a number of subdivisions of each hemisphere separated by both real landmarks  ( sulci and fissures )  and arbitrary boundaries [ fma , modified ]  .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a frontal lobe .
grey matter neocortex region of a lobe of the cerebral hemisphere .
gray matter of the parietal region of the neocortex ,  located in the parietal lobe of gyrencephalic animals .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a parietal lobe .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a temporal lobe .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a occipital lobe .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a limbic lobe .
gray matter of the temporal region of the neocortex ,  located in the temporal lobe in gyrencephalic animals
the external part of the developing pharynx that is made of ectoderm .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is part of gray matter .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is composed of white matter .
mucus produced in the respiratory tract .
any mucus produced by a mucosae of the respiratory system .
a white matter that is part of the midbrain .
a blood vessel that is part of a cerebellum .
an roughly circular indentation in a surface .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arch 1 that develop into the tragus ,  crus of the helix ,  and helix .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arch 2 that develop into the concha ,  antihelix and antitragus .
a scent gland that is part of the skin
a skin gland found in the interdigital region of some mammals
the dorsal region of the optic cup that gives rise to the dorsal part of the retina .
the ventral region of the optic cup that gives rise to the ventral part of the retina .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
the joint that is formed by the union of the humerus ,  the scapula  ( or shoulder blade )  ,  and the clavicle  ( or collarbone )  .
epithelium lining the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
any muscle tissue of the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
a periosteum that is part of a long bone .
a metaphysis that is part of a fibula .
a bony structure embedded in skin ,  roughly equivalent to osteoderms .
a sesamoid element that is part of a tarsal skeleton .
the ventral part of the body wall
the dorsal part of the body wall
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a saliva - secreting gland .
any of the small racemose mucous glands in the mucous membrane lining the cheeks
a viscus that is part of a abdomen .
a mesopodial endochondral element that is in the most proximal part of the mesopodial skeleton ,  connected to the zeugopodial skeleton .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a muscle layer that is part of the rectum
any portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of the rectum
a kidney interstitium that is part of a left kidney .
a kidney interstitium that is part of a right kidney .
a renal pelvis that is part of a left ureter .
a renal pelvis that is part of a right ureter .
a renal cortex interstitium that is part of a left kidney .
a renal cortex interstitium that is part of a right kidney .
a renal medulla interstitium that is part of a left kidney .
a renal medulla interstitium that is part of a right kidney .
encapsulated adipose tissue that is part of a tail .
a cluster of mammary gland lobules .
any vertebra endochondral element that is part of the caudal region of the vertebral column  ( tail or coccyx )  .
a transverse process that is part of a cervical vertebra
a rib that is attached to a cervical vertebra .
a rib that is attached to a lumbar vertebra .
a transverse process that is part of a lumbar vertebra
a zone of skin that is part of a lower lip .
a zone of skin that is part of a upper lip .
a ligament that is part of a middle ear .
an organ system subdivision that is the part of the lymphoid system that includes the pulmonary lymphatic vessels .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a lung .
a sweat gland that is part of a axilla .
a stroma that is part of a pancreas .
a capsule that divides the parenchyma of the pancreas into lobes and lobules
a boundary delimiting a rhombomere .
a vein that supplies blood to the thymus .
a vein that drains a thyroid gland .
an artery that supplies a cervical thymus .
one of the veins draining a meninix .
a branch of the superior mesenteric artery that supplies the jejunum .
a vein that drains a lacrimal gland .
any portion of submucosa that lines the digestive tract .
any organ component layer that consists of muscle tissue .
a muscular coat that is part of a digestive tract .
tissue that is part of some adrenal gland
foramen that allows the passge of the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cranial nerve ix )  .
situated just caudal to the acetabulum ,  the foramen is bound dorsally by the illium and ventrally by the ischium .
a branch of the maxillary nerve that enters the infraorbital canal and innervates the lower eyelid ,  upper lip ,  the nasal vestibule ,  the upper incisors ,  canines ,  premolars ,  upper gums ,  lower eyelid and conjunctiva ,  and part of the nose .
a z - shaped canal running through the temporal bone from the internal acoustic meatus to the stylomastoid foramen .
an bone foramen in the ethmoid bone .
the anatomical space within the intestine .
muscle innervated by the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
the neck region of a bone organ .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
a membranous sac in animals that serves as the receptacle of a liquid or contains gas .
adipose tissue which is located throughout skeletal muscle and is responsible for the marbling seen in certain cuts of beef .
the deep terminal division of the pudendal nerve that runs along the dorsum of the clitoral shaft and innervates the the glans clitoris .
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
the part of the eye that consists of both the retina and the optic choroid
either of the outermost digits in a five - digit autopod ,  or their phylogenetic equivalent .
a white matter that is part of the hindbrain .
a white matter that is part of the forebrain .
a white matter that is part of the myelencephalon .
epithelial layer that is part of the external part of the nose .
the initial segment of an olfactory nerve ,  leaving the central nervous system .
an oily substance that prevents evaporation of the eye's tear film
an exocrine gland that is part of a integumental system .
the spinal accessory nucleus lies within the cervical spinal cord  ( c1 - c5 )  in the ventral horn .
a blood vessel that supplies or drains an ear .
a sharp bend between consecutive segments of the colon .
the splenic  ( or left colic )  flexure is a sharp bend between the transverse and the descending colon in the left upper quadrant of humans .
hepatic  ( or the right colic )  flexure is the sharp bend between the ascending and the transverse colon .
a nucleus in the ventral part of the anterior horn of the sacral region of the spinal cord that is the origin of the pudendal nerve .
the single bud - like invagination of the conjunctival fornix epithelium at the temporal aspect of the eye that signals lacrimal gland formation  ( int rev cytol .
an aqueous substance that covers the anterior surface of the eyeball ,  keeping the cornea wet .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a reproductive gland .
a nerve that innervates a lower eyelid and is a branch of the infra - orbital branch of the maxillary nerve .
a nerve that innervates an eyelid and is a branch of the infra - orbital branch of the maxillary nerve .
a nerve that innervates a lower eyelid .
a nerve that innervates an upper eyelid .
single layer of a laminar structure ,  identified by different density ,  arrangement or size of cells and processes arranged in flattened layers or lamina [ cumbo ]  .
serous membrane layer that is adjacent to and lines an organ .
serous membrane layer that lines to a body cavity .
the layer of endometrial epithelium adjacent to the uterine cavity .
the layer of endometrial epithelium adjacent to the myometrium .
a blood vessel of the placenta .
a mammary gland duct that is part of a male organism .
a specific region of the foregut into the area in which the lung will develop .
white matter that lies deep to the granular cell layer of the cerebellar cortex .
a taste bud that is located on the soft palate ,  in the roof of the mouth .
any organ that is the primary organ of vocalization behavior .
an embryonic or larval epithelium that is committed to form part of the nervous system .
an epithelium that is undergoing proliferation to provide large numbers of neuronal cells .
a neuroepithelium some of whose cells are undergoing terminal differentiation to become neuronal cells .
the layer of the developing cerebral cortex that is formed from the first cohort of neurons to migrate out of the cortical ventricular zone ;  split by the second wave into marginal zone and subplate .
any of the cranial nerves ,  or their central nervous system analogs  ( the optic tract ,  the epiphyseal tract )  .
a cranial nerve fiber tract that innervates the parietal eye .
a cranial nerve fiber tract that innervates the pineal body .
a taste bud that is located external to the digestive tube ,  on the head or body ,  as found in species such as goldfish .
a taste bud that is located on a lip .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the head .
a taste bud that is located in the pharynx .
a taste bud that is located on the roof of the mouth .
a taste bud that is located on a fin .
a taste bud that is located in the esophagus .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the trunk .
the autonomic nerve is a small nerve which carries postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons from the zygomaticotemporal nerve ;  a branch of the maxillary nerve ,  to the lacrimal nerve ;  a branch of the ophthalmic nerve .
any commissure within the hindbrain .
a part of an organism or organ that is continuous with its surroundings and distinguished from its surroundings based on morphology .
any substance in the body or expelled from the body that is in a gaseous state .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system that is composed primarily of air .
the outgrowth of neuroectoderm located on the floor of the embryonic hypothalamus that gives rise to the neurohypophysis  ( posterior lobe )  of the pituitary gland
the area of axial mesoderm that develops into the prechordal plate
the thickened ridge of bone that contains the tooth sockets on the premaxilla .
endocardium that is part of the left atrium .
parenchymal tissue that forms the pineal gland .
any of the muscles that are responsible for moving the scapula .
a cranial suture in the midline of the skull that connects the left and right maxilla bones
an multicellular anatomical structure that has subparts of multiple organs as a part .
a cluster of cells ,  largely surrounded by a morphological boundary .
material anatomical entity consisting of multiple anatomical structures that are not connected to each other .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
an anatomical collection that is arranged in a line .
a region or zone on the surface of an organism that encompasses skin and any adnexa ,  down through muscles and bounded by underlying skeletal support structures .
the epithelial layer covering the biliary system .
any organ component layer that consists of smooth muscle tissue .
flattened posterior region of ciliary body
an enlarged chamber in the blood sinus capable of accumulating a large volume of blood .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system .
a population of lymphatic endothelial cell precursors that will form the lymph vessels .
one of several small clusters of chemoreceptors ,  baroreceptors ,  and supporting cells located along the aortic arch .
a nonchromaffin paraganglion located in the wall of the jugular bulb .
a cluster of neuroendocrine cells derived from neural crest .
a cluster of chemoreceptive and support cells associated with blood vessels and nerves .
a nerve plexus which provides motor and sensory nerves for the posterior thigh ,  most of the lower leg ,  the entire foot ,  and part of the pelvis .
a nervous plexus in the lumbar region of the body which forms part of the lumbosacral plexus .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a brain region defined by functional criteria ,  e .g .
an epithelium that is part of an eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a naris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the fibro - osseous passageway on the palmar side of the wrist that connects the distal forearm to the middle compartment of the deep plane of the palm .
the deep temporal arteries ,  two in number ,  anterior and posterior ,  ascend between the temporalis and the pericranium .
any of the tubular canals of the parotid gland located within the parenchymal  ( secretory )  tissue i .e .
any of the interlobular excretory ducts of the parotid gland which are found in the connective tissue septa and formed by the union of several intralobular striated  ( secretory )  ducts ;  ultimately ,  the excretory ducts of the parotid gland coalesce and form a single main excretory duct  ( stensen's duct )  that opens into the oral cavity ;  excretory ducts do not change the secretory product .
any of the interlobular excretory ducts of a salivary gland which are found in the connective tissue septa and formed by the union of several intralobular striated  ( secretory )  ducts [ mp , generalized ]  .
any of the excretory ducts of the parotid gland which are found in the connective tissue septa i .e .
a vertebra that has a transverse process .
a post - anal tail that attaches outside the tail .
a transverse process that is part of a caudal vertebra
a nerve that innervates the sole of the foot .
a plantar nerve that supplies the lateral side of the plantar part of the foot ,  including pedal digit 5 .
a plantar nerve that supplies the medial side of the plantar part of the foot ,  including pedal digit 1 .
any material entity that is located in the digestive tract .
any of the sutures of the hard palate
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of the whole body .
the flattened aspect of the prostate with a slight furrow facing the rectum and anus .
the organ of hearing located on the right side of the head .
clinical esophageal segment composed of smooth muscle .
the tubules that carry lymph throughout the body that are just beneath the surface of the skin .
a major portion of the greater omentum between the stomach and the transverse colon .
zone of esophagus located in the thorax .
between the plica triangularis and the surface of the palatine tonsils is a space known as the tonsillar fossa  ( or tonsillar sinus )  ;  in many cases ,  however ,  this sinus is obliterated by its walls becoming adherent .
the narrowest portion of the gallbladder and distal to the cystic duct .
an extension of the tissue of the breast which extends into the axilla .
the organ of hearing located on the left side of the head [ ncit , modified ]  .
an elevated zone of the sella turcica behind the chiasmatic groove [ wp , modified ]  .
the membrane the surrounds the prostate gland .
a lymph node located in the retroperitoneal space .
an artery that supplies the pituitary gland .
the diaphragma sellae or sellar diaphragm is the circular fold of dura mater that almost completely roofs the fossa hypophyseos in the sphenoid bone of the skull .
the parietal pleura that lines the mediastinum .
a vein that drains blood from the right adrenal gland into the inferior vena cava .
clinical esophageal segment composed of skeletal muscle .
a space inside the uterus lined by a layer of mucus membranes called the endometrium .
the external portion of the prostate including the anterior ,  inferolateral ,  lateral and posterior surfaces .
a vein that drains blood from the left adrenal gland into the left renal artery .
the concave side of the lymph node .
the portion of the greater omentum that extends from the greater curvature of the stomach to the inferior surface of the diaphragm
the aspect of the prostate facing the pubic symphysis .
any of several arteries that arise from the aorta and supply blood to the esophagus .
the tubules that carry lymph throughout the body that are in the interior of the body or limbs .
the part of the circulatory system that lies within the subcutaneous tissue layers close to the surface of the skin .
any of the veins carrying deoxygenated blood from the subcutaneous tissue layers .
the part of the circulatory system that lies deep beneath the subcutaneous tissue layers away from the surface of the skin .
a blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood far beneath the skin usually accompanying an artery .
any chamber of the left side of the heart
any chamber of the right side of the heart
an embryonic structure positioned halfway between the prospective eye and ear ,  adjacent to the future midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
any lymph vessel that is located in the dura mater of the brain .
the parts of the orbital region that are outside of the the eyeball ,  including the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva
any nerve that innervates the larynx .
any nerve that innervates the pinna .
any nerve that innervates the penis .
any nerve that innervates the clitoris .
any nerve that innervates the fibularis .
the primordial mouth region of the developing head .
a muscle layer that is part of the sigmoid colon
the sum of epicardial and paracardial fat deposits .
fat deposits in the mediastinum outside the parietal pericardium  .
any fat deposit surrounding a visceral organ .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdominal segment of the trunk ,  which encompasses the abdomen proper plus pelvic cavity .
a serous sac that is the aggregate of the peritoneum and the peritoneal cavity ,  located in the abdominal cavity .
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that is in the left side of the abdomen
the adrenal gland medulla that is in the left side of the abdomen
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that is in the right side of the abdomen
the adrenal gland medulla that is in the right side of the abdomen
the domain of the diaphragm that is a thin domed sheet of muscle composed of a radial array of myofibers extending laterally from the ribs and medially to a central tendon .
mucosa from the lowest portion of the esophagus ,  just proximal to the stomach .
submucosa from the lowest portion of the esophagus ,  just proximal to the stomach .
muscularis propria from the lowest portion of the esophagus ,  just proximal to the stomach .
the connective tissue between tendon and bone insertion sites ,  which acts to transmit tensile load from soft tissues to bone .
a suture between the orbital surface of the body of the maxilla with the orbital plate of the ethmoid bone .
a suture between the maxilla and premaxilla .
the lumen of the epididymis
the lower portion of the larynx ,  extending from just beneath the vocal cords down to the top of the trachea .
a vein that leaves the vestibule through an individual bone canal running parallel to the vestibular aqueduct up to the dura of the posterior side of the petrosa in the area of the endolymphatic sac .
an region of the mesoderm that includes anterior lateral mesoderm of the first heart field plus contiguous pharyngeal mesoderm that gives rise to second - heart - field - derived regions of the heart and branchiomeric muscles .
an organ subunit in the skin that gives rise to cutaneous appendage .
an anatomical junction that is between the sigmoid colon and rectum .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
a bodily fluid that is located in the coelom .
any gland that is part os the respiratory system .
a notochord that has persisted beyond the embryonic stage .
fluid that lines the vaginal walls that consists of multiple secretions that collect in the vagina from different glands .
a transudate found in the serous sac .
parenchymal tissue that consists of the alveoli ,  grape - like clusters where milk is stored ,  and branching ducts ,  which are tubular canals carrying gladular secretions .
any synovial joint that connects auditory ossicles .
any of the eight ligaments pertaining to the uterus including the anterior ,  posterior ,  lateral ,  sacro - uterine and round ligaments .
the upper part of the larynx ,  including the epiglottis ;  the area above the vocal cords .
the zygomaticotemporal nerve or zygomaticotemporal branch  ( temporal branch )  is derived from the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
the part of vertebra located between the inferior and superior articular processes of the facet joint .
the anterior and posterior borders of the tonsillar fossa .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of aorta .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of pulmonary trunk .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the lateral and septal walls of right ventricle .
a mucosa that is part of a lip region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper tract of the renal system .
an anatomical structure that is located along the line dividing two regions of an anatomical structure .
wall of organ which has as its parts the endocardium ,  myocardium  ,  epicardium ,  and the cardiac septum ,  surrounded by the pericardial sac proper and is continuous with the walls of the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous trees .
a collection of hairs that grows on the external ear .
anatomical structure consisting of either corner of the mouth .
a zone of skin that is part of the face .
the parenchyma of the spleen ,  consisting of lymphocytes and macrophages .
a parenchyma that is part of a spleen .
an anatomical junction between two parts of the digestive tract .
laterally flattened haemal spine of an ural vertebra that lacks its arch and supports a few principal caudal lepidotrichia distally .
hemal spines are extensions of hemal arches in the ventral skeletogenous septum of the caudal region .
cartilage which is part of the axial skeleton .
tooth that is attached to the premaxilla .
joint that articulates the left and right premaxillary bones .
anatomical cluster including hypural 3 and more dorsal hypurals that supports the dorsal series of principal caudal lepidotrichia or rays .
anatomical cluster including hypurals 1 and 2 that supports part of the ventral principal caudal lepidotrichia or rays and that separates from the dorsal hypural set through the hypural diastema .
vertebra that is incomplete or rudimentary and may bear a rudimentary neural arch and sometimes a rudimentary spine or the neural arch and spine are completely absent .
joint that articulates the premaxilla and maxilla .
capillary that has pores in the endothelial cells  ( 60 - 80 nm in diameter )  that are spanned by a diaphragm of radially oriented fibrils and allow small molecules and limited amounts of protein to diffuse
non neural ectoderm that surrounds the presumptive neural plate and gives rise to neurogenic placodes .
structures of the dermis ,  epidermis ,  glands and pigment cells recognizable on the external surfaces of the integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the external head integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the body integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the limb integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the tail integument .
blood vessels in respiratory skin .
skeletal tissue that is mineralized .
fin that is an unpaired fin located in the sagittal plane of the organism .
the caudal fin is the most posterior median fin .
median fin skeleton supporting the caudal fin .
postcranial axial skeleton that is unpaired and located on the sagittal plane of the organism .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone or cartilage tissue .
an anatomical surface that is part of a bone
mesenchyme that is part of a forelimb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a hindlimb bud .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 1 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 5 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 1 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 5 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 1 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 5 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 1 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of a single digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 5 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 1 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 5 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 1 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 5 plus the associated metapodial element .
left part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
right part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
a zone of skin that is part of a scalp .
a forelimb that is on the right side of a pectoral complex .
a forelimb that is on the left side of a pectoral complex .
a hindlimb that is on the right side of a pelvic complex .
a hindlimb that is on the left side of a pelvic complex .
hepatic serous coat ;  peritoneal covering of the liver ,  enclosing almost all except for a triangular area on its posterior surface  ( the "bare area of the liver" )  and a smaller area where the liver and gallbladder are in direct contact .
subserosal tissue of liver .a zone of areolar connective tissue lying beneath the serous coat of the liver and distinguished with difficulty from the fibrous capsule of glisson .
region of liver parenchyma immediately below the capsule .
the anatomical junction between the duodenum and the jejunum .
the anatomical junction between the descending colon and the sigmoid colon .
a portal vein that drains the descending colon .
a portal vein that drains the ascending colon .
the area where the jejunum ends and the ileum part of the intestine begins .
the skin covering the inguinal region between the abdomen and the thigh on either side of the pubic bone .
an anatomical junction between two parts of the intestine .
a vein where lymph node venules condense and which exits at the lymph node hilum .
an artery that enters the lymph node at the hilum and branches into smaller arterioles .
