anterior region of the body that contains the palps ,  chelicerae and hypostome .
the adult body is the region that includes the prosoma and the opisthosoma .
ticks have 4 pairs of walking legs as adults and nymphs  ( only 3 pair occur in larvae )  .
the paired palps are located on either side of the hypostome and the medially - located chelicerae .
tip - pore setiform sensilla that have dendrites from both mechanosensory and gustatory neurons .
the third segment of the palp .
the second segment of the palp .
the fourth and distal most segment of the palp .
the hypostome is an unpaired ,  elongated projection from the basis capituli that is inserted into the skin when the tick feeds .
setiform tip - pore sensilla that have dendrites from gustatory neurons .
the field of tiny denticles at the anterior end of the hypostome .
the hypostome is armed with numerous recurved denticles  ( = teeth )  that project posteriorly .
the chelicerae are the cutting organs used by the tick to penetrate the host's skin .
food channel through which blood is sucked and / or saliva is delivered .
spinose sheath covering the cheliceral shafts but not the digits .
delicate inner membrane surrounding the shaft of the chelicera .
delicate membraneous sheath that can be withdrawn to expose the cheliceral digits .
bublous area at the junction of the capitulum and the body which contains the muscles that move the cheliceral digits .
major region of the junction of the capitulum with the body that encloses the cheliceral shafts and cheliceral bases ;  alsoincludes the pharynx and the salivary ducts .
roof of the basis capituli that fuses with the outer cheliceral sheaths ;  also encloses the pharynx ,  pharyngeal dilater muscles , pharyngeal constrictor muscles and the salivary gland ducts .
muscles that move the cheliceral digits .
flexes inner digit in the lateral direction .
extends  ( straightens )  inner cheliceral digits towards the midline .
large ,  spiny anterior - most segment of the chelicera that contains cutting spines cutting into the skin of the host .
the large ,  sharp tooth on the inner digit .
the basal segment  ( =article )  of the palp that is attached to the basis capituli .
this sensillum is innervated by a single neuron believed to have a thermosensory function .
gustatory chemosensory sensillum innervated by 11 chemosensory dendrites .
space bounded by the hypostome and chelicerae .
the psd - 1 neuron is believed to function as a thermosensory neuron .
large flat circular plate at the base of the inner cheliceral digit innervated by mechanosensory dendrites .
nerve within cheliceral digits supply mechanosensory and chemosensory  ( gustatory )  neurons .
branch from cheliceral nerve containing mechanosensory dendrites .
branch comprising cluster of 11 chemosensory dendrites from cheliceral nerve to ps - 2 pit sensillum .
nerve comprising mechanosensory ,  chemosensory  ( mostly gustatory )  neurons to palpal sensory field sensilla at the tip of article iv .
paired depressions on dorsal surface of the basis capituli of females containing numerous tiny pores .
dorsal plate found in all stages of all ixodid ticks ;  absent in argasidae .
flap like structure covering the roof of the preoral canal .
opening found at the junction of the preoral canal and the anterior pharygneal valve  ( opening of the pharynx )  .
plate for attachment of dorsal dilator muscle of the pharynx .
powerful sucking organ that serves as a sucking pump to suck blood from the host during blood feeding .
a system of tracheal trunks and anastomosing tracheae that extend throughout the body ,  capitulum and legs to supply oxygen tothe cells and tissues and remove waste co2 .
the large chamber just below the ostium that connects the subostial space with the tracheal trunks .
cavity into which blood flows .
bands of striated muscles that surround the pharynx and collapse it ,  driving blood posteriorly .
bands of striated muscles extending from the ventral internal surface of the basis capituli to the ventral surface of the pharynx .
bands of striated muscles extending from the epistome  ( subcheliceral plate )  of the basis capituli to the dorsal surface of the pharynx .
bands of constrictor muscles extending from the lateral margins of the basis capituli to the pharynx .
valve at the anterior end of the pharynx and mouth opening at the end of the preoral canal .
v - shaped moveable sructure  ( wedge )  that contributes to opening and closing of the valve by fitting into the mouth at the end of the pre - oral canal ,  thereby opening or closing the connection to the pharynx .
wing - shaped sclerotized plates for support of muscles controlling the action of the pharyngeal valve ,  muscle bundles extendfrom the alae to the subcheliceral plate  ( epistome )  and from the alar surfaces to the ventral side of the basis capituli .
muscles within the hypostome that extend from the lateral margins to the pre - oral canal  ( hypostomal gutter )  and dilate the channel .
ducts from the salivary glands to the salivarium .
a nerve that originates in the stomadeal pons of the synganglion and runs alongside the esophagus to a hypoesophageal ganglion adjacent to the retrocerebral organ complex  ( roc )  .
small teeth on the inner walls of the pharyngeal valve in some ixodid ticks ;  absent in argasid ticks .
cuticle - lined duct from the end of the pharynx to the midgut .
remainder of the dorsal body surface posterior to the scutum .
aperture on the ventro - lateral margin of the body .
plate surrounding or adjacent to spiracle on the ventro - lateral margin of the body .
simple eye located on dorso - lateral margin of dorsum ,  adjacent to the scutum .
simple eye located on the ventro - lateral margin of the body between legs iii and iv .
paired structure on dorsal body .
paired multicellular glands connected to the foveal pores by simple ducts .
single sensory nerve innervating the foveal glands .
pore located in the ventral midline of the body for elimination of fecal and excretory wastes .
located in anterior ventral midline between the coxae of legs ii and iii .
located in anterior ventral midline between the coxae of legs ii and iii .
groove in the ventral posterior mid - line of the body anterior to the anal pore in the prostriata but posterior to the anal pore in the metastriata .
groove that separates the dorsal and ventral regions of the body along the lateral margins .
protruding anterior extension of the body in argasid ticks of the genus ornithodoros that obscures the capitulum in dorsal view .
region of the body posterior to the leg coxae that bears the spiracles and the anal aperture .
region of the body bearing the legs and the genital pore .
sclerotized plate on the ventral surface of the males of the genus ixodes anterior to the genital pore .
slerotized plate on the ventral median region of the body of males of the genus ixodes .
sclerotized plate on the body of the males of the genus ixodes located posterior to the median plate and surrounding the anal pore .
sclerotized plate on ventral opisthosomal surface of the males of the genus ixodes lateral to the anal plate .
sclerotized plate on the ventral opisthosomal region of the males of the genus ixodes .
paired flap like structures on the anterior ventral surface of the body adjacent to the capitulum of argasid ticks of the genus ornithodoros .
paired glands located in the ventral anterior region inside the body of adult and nymphal argasid ticks .
collecting tubule of each coxal gland .
tiny pore located on each side of the ventral opithosomal region of the body of argasid ticks between the coxae of legs i andii .
region of the coiled collecting duct within the body of the coxal gland .
region of the coiled collecting duct of the coxal gland .
highly folded delicate membrane forming the outer surface of the coxal gland of argasid ticks .
cells that form the lining of the coiled collecting duct of the coxal glands .
ducts of the foveal glands connecting the secretory cells of the foveal glands with the foveal pores in the foveae on the body surface .
numerous tiny slit - like pores that occur on the surface of the allocscutum in ixodid ticks .
hair - like structures that occur all over the body .
paired grooves located in the median region of the scutum in most ixodid ticks .
paired shallow grooves that occur near the lateral regions of the scutum in some prostriate ixodid ticks .
ridges located on the lateral sides of the scutum in some ixodid ticks .
cavity with elevated margins in the anterior region of the body within which the capitulum is situated .
innumerable tiny folds of cuticle on the surface of the body of argasid ticks of the genus ornithodoros .
small rectangular plates that occur on the surface of the body of argasid ticks of the genus argas .
groove located in the ventral median opisthosomal region of the body of some argasid ticks ,  especially species of the genus ornithodoros .
groove located near the posterior margin of the ventral opisthosomal region of some species of argasid ticks ,  especially in the genus ornithodoros .
numerous semi - transparent structures throughout the surface of the spiracular plate containing aeropyles within each goblet .
cavities within the spiracular plate structure represented externally by the goblets .
pillars of cuticle separating the individual air spaces  ( aeropyles )  .
small raised structure adjacent to the ostium .
opening from the atrial chamber of the respiratory system to the exterior .
prominent anteriorly protruding spine - like extension of the scutum on either side of the capitulum in some species of ixodid ticks .
fold along the dorso - lateral margin of the body in some species of ixodid ticks ,  separated on the medial side by the marginalgroove .
prominent folds on the ventro - lateral margins of argasid ticks adjacent to the leg coxae .
subrectangular areas on the ventral posterior margins of the body of some species of ixodid ticks .
prominent fold on the ventral surface of the body in some argasid ticks adjacent to the leg coxae .
the body covering consisting of the cuticle and the underlying epidermis .
tissue that secretes the cuticle .
dead outer part of the integument made up of primarily of protein and chitin .
thin  ( 1  -  2 microns )  outermost layer of the cuticle composed entirely of protein .
region of the cuticle under the epicuticle composed of a mixture of protein and chitin compounds .
consists of numerous microfibrils perpendicular to the cuticular surface forming a striated appearance  ( as seen with theelectron microscope )  .
thin electron dense layer composed of complex tanned lipoproteins .
in ixodid ticks ,  this is the outermost layer .
outermost layer of the epicuticle in argasid ticks .
glands located in the integument consisting of two or three cells that secrete waxy fluids onto the cuticle via ducts .
dermal glands located on the ventro - lateral regionof the body of the males of several african amblyomma species .
paired glands comprised of clusters of white multicellular acini  ( lobes )  arranged around a common salivary duct .
outermost ,  non - lamellated region of the procuticle .
the innermost zone of the procuticle .
tiny submicroscopic or barely microscopic canaliculi normally visible only with the electron microscope .
duct from the cells of the dermal gland to the exterior of the cuticle .
valve - like structure at the junction of the dermal gland duct and the dermal gland cells .
socket - like sensilla ,  somewhat broader than the sensilla auriformia ,  that occur on the surface of the alloscutum .
cluster of non - granular cells located along the anterior part of the salivary ducts .
granular acini clustered around secondary salivay ducts .
a cluster of acini located primarily in the posterior region of the salivary gland ,  connected via secondary ducts to the mainsalivary gland duct .
type of cell found in the type ii acini of the salivary glands in ixodid ticks .
cells found in the type ii acini .
cell type found in the type ii acini of the salivay glands of ixodid ticks .
large cell in the center of the acini in direct contact with the main salivary duct .
large cells located along the peripheral margins of the type i acini .
cells reponsible for secreting the intralobular acinar duct .
bifurcate ducts from within the acini that coalesce and fuse with the main salivary duct .
these cells occur along the outer edges of the type ii or type iii acini ,  sandwiched between the much larger granule - filled secretory cells .
long narrow cells that are situated between the much larger granular secretory cells and extend from the central lumen almost to the periphery of the acinus .
a type of granular acinus found only in males of ixodid ticks .
cell type found in the type iii acini of the salivary gland .
cell type found in the type iii acini of the salivary glands .
cell found in the type iii acini of the salivary gland .
undifferentiated cells  ( stem cells )  from which all other cell types differentiate during and after feeding .
secretory cells filled with spherical secretion granuls .
small ,  secondary ducts that connect the individual granular acini to the main salivary duct .
temporary lumen that forms in the type iii acinus during the later stages of blood feeding when the f cells transforms and prepares the acinus for water elimination .
system consisting of the heart ,  aorta ,  periganglionic sinus ,  pericardial sinus ,  dorsal and ventral anterior sinuses and the four pedal arteries .
an elongated thin walled ,  saclike structure composed of a layer of epithelium and smooth muscle fibers located in the dorsal mid line of the body lying just below the paired dorsal foveae .
a thin membranous epithelial sac that surrounds heart and separates it from the hemocoel .
narrow hemolymph - filled cavity surrounding the synganglion and continuous with the pericardial sinus .
bulbous thickened posterior region of the heart .
cone shaped anterior region that fuses with the aorta .
two pairs of ostia occur ,  two on either side ,  in the bulbous posterior region .
valve located between the junction of the anterior region of the heart and the aorta .
short ,  muscular tube that connects the heart with the periganglionic sinus .
muscle bands that contribute to dilation of the heart .
muscles that contribute to the dilation of the heart .
 \ "blood vessel \ " that extends from the periganglionic sinus towards the anterior end of the body .
vessel from the periganglionic sinus that surrounds the first pedal nerve trunk .
vessel from the periganglionic sinus that surrounds the second pedal nerve trunk .
vessel from the periganglionic sinus that surrounds the third pedal nerve trunk .
vessel from the periganglionic sinus that surrounds the fourth pedal nerve trunk .
in ixodid ticks ,  this system includes the malpighian tubules ,  the intestine ,  the rectal sac ,  and the anus .
a pair of thin - walled extremely long ,  coiled and folded tubules that extend throughout the body .
region of the alimentary system concerned with waste accumulation and water resorption .
short thin tube connecting the midgut with the rectal sac .
large thin - walled organ located in the posterior region of the body .
short cuticle - lined tube connecting the rectal sac to the anus  ( anal pore )  .
a thin layer of cuboidal cells covered with innumerable microvilli on their lumenal surfaces that forms the inner lining of the malpighian tubules .
a thin layer of squamous epithelial cells and smooth muscle cells that form the outer wall of the malpighian tubules .
system comprising the foregut ,  midgut and hindgut .
region of the alimentary canal where digestion of the blood meal takes place .
cenral part of the midgut from which various diverticula emerge and spread in all three planes throughout the body .
paired midgut diverticula that extend from the anterior diverticulum and proceed anteriorly into the median region of the bodytowards the capitulum .
paired midgut diverticula that extend from antero - median diverticula anterolaterally into the lateral regions of the body .
paired midgut diverticula that extend from the stomach  ( ventriculus )  anteriorly and subdivide into the anterior median and theanterior lateral diverticula .
paired midgut diverticula that extend from the stomach  ( ventriculus )  to the lateral regions of the body .
paired diverticula that extend from the stomach  ( ventriculus )  to the postero - lateral margins of the body .
paired diverticula that emerge from the postero - median region of the stomach  ( ventriculus )  and extend into the mid - posteriorregions of the body .
valve located at the junction of the esophagus and the antero - ventral region of the stomach portion of the midgut .
layer of epithelial cells comprising multiple cell types that carry out the secretory ,  absorptive and digestive functions of the midgut .
the outer layer of the midgut comprising a single layer of elongated smooth muscle cells that form the outer wall of this organ .
early stage digestive cell concerned with hemoglobin digestion .
midgut digestive cell in advanced stage of hemoglobin digestion .
differential epithelial cell that enlarge greatly during feeding and become flask shaped in appearance and fill with largenumbes of granule - filled vesicles .
the internal cavity within the midgut where ingested blood is contained and wastes from blood meal digestion accumulate .
region of the alimentary system comprising the preoral canal  ( hypostomal groove or gutter )  ,  mouth ,  pharynx ,  esophagus andproventriculus .
this system consists of the synganglion ,  the peripheral nerves and the neuroendocrine systems consisting of 1 )  clusters ofneurosecretory cells located in specialized neurosecretory centers in the synganglion proper and 2 )  neurohaemal organs or tissuesadjacent to the synganglion .
the synganglion constitutes the entire central nervous of the tick .
region of the synganglion lying anterior and dorsal to the esophagus .
region of the synganglion located ventral and posterior to the esophagus ,  hence the name .
thin layer of squamous epithelial cells that form the outer wall of the periganglionic sinus .
the neurilemma forms the outermost part of the synganglion .
this structure lies immediately below the perineurium .
outer region of the synganglion containing the neuron cell bodies and the various neurosecretory centers .
innermost region of the synganglion containing the fiber tracts made up of numerous axons and dendrites .
type i neurons have perikarya that usually range in size from 6  -  9 microns  ( rarely ,  27  -  35 microns )  .
type ii neurons are neurosecretory  ( ns )  cells ,  25  -  40 microns in size and filled with masses of neurosecretory vesicles .
type iii neurons are small  ( 6 microns )  cells that represent a unique cell type limited tothe paired globuli on the ventralsurface of the synganglion anterior to the first pair of pedal ganglia .
a large area of loosely organized neuropile that also contain glomeruli .
small areas of high density neuropile located within the protocerebrum .
transversely directed fiber tracts connecting bilaterally opposed glomeruli or ganglia .
longitudinally - directed fiber tracts connecting glomeruli or ganglia arranged in the antero - posterior axis with glomeruli or glomerular knots throughout the synganglion .
masses of neuron cell bodies from which the cheliceral nerves emerge .
masses of neuron cell bodies from which the palpal nerves emerge .
the space located immediately below the ostium of the spiracle and connected to the atrial chamber .
site of origin of the unpaired pharyngeal nerve  ( =esophageal nerve )  and the recurrent nerve  ( =stomatogastric nerve )  to thehypoesophageal ganglion .
located adjacent to the retrocerebral organ complex  ( roc )  .
the roc is situated in the periganglionic sinus adjacent to the protocerebral neuropilar ganglion .
the unpaired lobe is located in the dorsal median part of the organ complex .
the pair of lobes located on the ventral side of the roc .
center where axons from sensory neurons converge .
site where axons from certain sensory neurons converge .
ganglion from which the fibers that form the pedal nerve trunk i emerge .
ganglion from which the fibers that form the pedal nerve trunk ii emerge .
ganglion from which the fibers that form the pedal nerve trunk iiii emerge .
ganglion from which the fibers that form the pedal nerve trunk iv emerge .
lobes containing the olfactory neuron cell bodies  ( =olfactory ganglia )  .
centers where axons from neurons associated with the olfactory lobes converge .
center where axons from the opisthosomal  ( = ventral )  ganglion converge .
fused ganglion containing the neuron cell bodies from which the paired opisthosomal and paraspiracular nerves originate .
system comprising the nerves that innervate the various body ,  capitulum and leg structures .
the peripheral nerves are comprised almost exclusively of axons surrounded by glial cells and enclosed in an amorphous neurilemma .
a sheath that surrounds the individual axon or group of axons in a peripheral nerve .
non - neuronal cells that provide support and nourish the neurons and possibly help maintain homeostasis .
large nerve that emerges from pedal ganglion i .
large nerve that emerges from pedal ganglion ii .
large nerve that emerges from pedal ganglion iii .
large nerve that emerges from pedal ganglion iv .
nerve that emerges from the cheliceral ganglion and innervates the cheliceral muscles and chelicerae .
nerve that emerges from the palpal ganglion and innervates the palps ,  including the sensory field at the tip of palpal articleiv .
nerve that extends from the stomadeal pons to the pharynx and esophagus .
a pair of nerves that emerge from the optic ganglia and innervate the eyes .
a neuronal cell type concerned with sensory perception .
large cuticle lined tubes that extend from the atrial chambers and then subdivide into numerous individual tracheae .
a pair of nerves that extend from the opisthosomal ganglia on the ventral surface of the synganglion to various organs and tissues in the posterior region of the body .
collection of neurohaemal organs adjacent to the synganglion and neurosecretory centers in the synganglion .
the retrocerebral oran complex is a major neurohaemal organ located in a neurohaemal sinus that connects with the periganglionic sinus around the synganglion .
cells found in the hemolymph .
prohemocytes are the stem cells from which all other hemocytes develop .
plasmatocytes are relatively small oval ,  suboval or fusiform cells but without granules .
type i granulocytes are hemocytes with numerous diverse inclusion bodies of varying density ,  some that are very electron denseand believed rich in lipids ,  others that are electron lucent and contain a matrix of fibrillar material .
type ii granulocytes are hemocytes that are easily recognized by the presence of a single type of electron dense ,  homogenous granules .
small round or ovoid cells contain few ,  large granules filled with a matrix of fibrillar material .
cell type of uncertain status .
neuroendocrine organs located in the hemolymph adjacent to the synganglia .
neurosecretory centers are clusters of two or neurosecretory cell types ,  cells that fill with neurosecretory granules thatmigrate along the axons of these neurons to the target cells ,  tissues or organs .
small cell clusters located in the lateral nerve plexus on the lateral sides of the synganglion .
fiber tracts in the neuropile of the synaganglion that connect the various neurosecretory centers and the retrocerebral organ complex  ( roc )  .
this is the sheath that surrounds the retrocerebral organ complex .
this is the sinus  ( cavity )  formed by the extensions of the vascular sheath surrounding the retrocerebral organ complex  ( roc )  .
a unpaired neurosecretory center located in the supraesophageal region of the syngangion .
a pair of neurosecetory centers located in the supraesophageal region of the synganglion .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located in the supraesophageal region of the synganglion .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located in the supraesophageal region of the synganglion .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located in the supraesophageal region .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located in the supraesophageal region of the synganglion .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located in the supraesophageal region of the synganglion .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located in the supraesophageal region of the synganglion .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located in the supraesophageal region of the synganglion .
this plexus occurs along the lateral edge of the synganglion and is formed from branches of the pedal nerve trunks .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located in the subesophageal region of the synganglion adjacent to pedal ganglion ii .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located along the ventrolateral margin of the subesophageal region of the synganglion adjacent to pedal ganglia i and ii .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located along the lateral margins of the subesophageal region of the synganglion adjacent to pedal ganglia ii .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located along the lateral margins of the subesophageal region of the synganglion adjacent to pedal ganglia ii and iii .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located along the lateral margins of the subesophageal region of the synganglion adjacent to pedal ganglion iii .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located along the lateral margins of the subesophageal region of the synganglion adjacent to pedal ganglion iv .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located along the postero - ventral margins of the subesophageal region of the synganglion adjacent to the opisthosomal ganglia .
a pair of neurosecretory centers located in the postero - median region of the subesophageal region of the synganglion adjacent to the paired opithosomal ganglia .
a large ,  unpaired neurosecretory center located in the median ventral part of the subesophageal region of the synganglion .
one of the peripheral nerves from the synganglion to the retrocerebral organ complex  ( roc )  .
a nerve from the synganglion to the center of the retrocerebral organ complex  ( roc )  .
the fluid filled interior of the body ,  capitulum and legs not occupied by organs or tissues .
the upper lobe of the retrocerebral organ complex  ( roc )  .
the paired ventral regions of the retrocerebral organ complex  ( roc )  .
a pair of nerves that innervates the dorsal lobe of the retrocerebral organ complex  ( roc )  .
the principal nerve innervating the retrocerebral organ complex  ( roc )  .
tracheal trunk leading to the capitulum .
the leg segment where the leg is attached to the body .
the segment of the leg that is attached to the coxa on the proximal side and the femur on the distal side .
the segment of the leg that articulates with the trochanter on the proximal side and the tibia on the distal side .
the segment of the leg that articulates between the femur on the proximal side and the metatarsus on the distal side .
region of the leg between the femur and the tibia .
terminal segment of the leg that bears the claws ,  pulvillus  ( when present )  and the haller's organ .
the apotele comprises the claws and the pulvillus on a hinged joint at the tip of the tarsus .
curved claws at the end of the apotele .
pad located at the end of the apotele under the claws .
sensory structure located on the dorsal surface of the tarsus .
a cavity on the dorsal surface of the tarsus of leg i that contains a number of single - walled multiporose olfactosensilla and other apparently non - sensory setae .
a depression on the dorsal surface of the tarsus of leg i located distal to the posterior capsule .
two or more multiporose setiform sensilla located on the dorsal surface of tarsus i immediately distal to the anterior pitportion of haller's organ .
a large multiporose setiform sensillum which functions as a olfactosensory sensillum .
a large multiporose setiform sensillum which functions as a olfactosensory sensillum .
a group of 4 setae  ( typically )  located immediately posterior  ( proximal )  to the posterior capsule of haller's organ .
setae located in the posterior capsule of haller's organ .
a small internal gland composed of up to 4 cells located immediately below the haller's organ within tarsus i .
a tissue comprised of one or more sensory neurons and sheatrh cells  ( thecogen cells )  which secrete an amorphous sheath ,  the scolopale ,  that surrounds and insulates the neuron cell bodies and their dendrites .
a cell found in the peripheral sensilla that surrounds the neuron cell bodies and the proximal parts of their dendrites .
an amorphous sheath secreted by the thecogen cells that surrounds the sensory neurons and the proximal parts of their dendrites .
a type of cell found in the sensillum that surround the sensory neuron dendrites and nourishes them ;  presumably functioning inion transport .
cells that contribute to the formation of the sensillum .
a hair like process that extends from the cuticle to the exterior .
the enlarged ,  rounded or oval cavity on the dorsal surface of the cuticle in which the seta is embedded .
slit - like structures that occur on the dorsal surfaces of the second ,  third and fourth leg tarsi in amblyomma variegatum .
the layer of clear ,  transparent cuticle that covers the eye .
a region of the subesophageal region of the synganglion that contains neurons that communicate with the eyes via the optic nerves .
anterior tracheal trunk in the anterior dorsal body region .
tracheal trunk leading to the anterior lateral margins of the body .
tracheal trunk leading to the anterior lateral margins of the body .
tracheal trunk leading to the median region of the body .
tracheal trunk leading to the median dorsal region of the body .
tracheal trunk leading to the posterior dorsal region of the body .
tracheal trunks leading to the dorsal anterior region of the body immediately posterior to the capitulum .
tracheal trunk that extends to the posterior median region of the body .
tracheal trunk that extends to the legs and subdivides into the indidividual tracheae that supply the legs .
the respiratory tube that supplies air to the organs and tissues and removes co2 .
the cuticular lining of the trachea that is folded into distinctive spiral coil which gives the trachea its distinctive character when viewed with the scanning or transmission electron microscope .
the single layer of epithelial cells that secretes and maintains the tracheae .
a pair tracheae that are derived from the anterior lateral trunks and extend to the chelicerae .
a pair of tracheae derived from the anterior lateral trunk and which extend anteriorly into the basis capituli .
a pair of trachea derived from the posterior median trunk that anastomoses into tiny tracheae throughout the posterior region ofthe body .
the fat body consists of highly dispersed strands of cells clinging to the atrial chamber ,  tracheal trunks and trachea and ,  to a limited extent ,  other internal organs .
the primary cell type that makes up most of the fat body .
one of the two types of the cells that make up the fat body .
the system of striated ,  voluntary muscles that control the movements of the various parts of the body ,  capitulum and legs .
bands of muscles that extend between the inner surfaces of the ventral and dorsal body cuticle that compress the body and create hydrostatic pressure .
muscle bands that rotate the coxa of leg i away the midline of the body .
bands of muscle that rotate the coxa towards the midline of the body .
muscle bands that rotate the coxa of leg ii away the midline of the body .
muscle bands that rotate the coxa of leg iii away the midline of the body .
muscle bands that rotate the coxa of leg iv away the midline of the body .
muscle bands that rotate the coxa of leg ii toward the midline of the body .
muscle bands that rotate the coxa of leg iii toward the midline of the body .
muscle bands that rotate the coxa of leg iv toward the midline of the body .
muscles that control the movements of the cuticle around the genital pore .
muscles that draw  ( flex )  the capitulum  ( gnathosoma )  towards the body .
muscles that extend the capitulum away from the body .
muscle bands that occur between the coxae .
in argasid ticks ,  muscles that insert on the coxal fold .
in argasid ticks ,  muscles that extend from the body wall to the coxal glands .
muscles that insert on the marginal fold .
in argasid ticks ,  muscles that insert on the pre - anal groove .
muscles that extend from the dorsal body wall  ( scutum in ixodid ticks )  to the bases of the chelicerae .
small muscle that draws the macula against the ostium ,  closing the spiracular pore .
a portion of the macula ,  forming its upper lip .
a pair of flap - like structures that allow the opening or closing of the anal aperture .
the portion of the macula that impinges against the spiracular plate ,  thereby closing the ostium  ( spiracular pore )  .
the minute submicroscopic tubes that penetrate directly into the cells and tissues .
the columella is the portion of the macula adjacent to its junction with the ostium .
the thin section of cuticle that connects the columella to the underside of the cuticular layer that supports the pedicels .
in argasid ticks ,  the valve - like constriction between the atrial chamber and the subostial space of the spiracle .
in argasid ticks ,  a enclosed area near the pedicels and connected to the subostial space .
this system consists of the ovary ,  the oviducts ,  the uterus ,  the cervical vagina ,  the seminal receptacle ,  the vestibular vagina , accessory glands and the genital pore .
an organ located in the dorsal anterior region of the body with paired horns that can be extruded through the capitular foramen in the camerostomal fold .
the opening at the anterior end of the body through which the finger - like projections of the gene's organ extend .
the raised margins of the camerostome .
muscles from the dorsal interior of the body that insert on the horns of the gene's organ .
in each leg the muscle that extends from the coxa which bends the trochanter and folds it against the body .
in each leg ,  a muscle band that extends from the coxa to the trochanter and extends it away from the body .
in each leg ,  a muscle band that extends from the trochanter to the femur and bends it towards the body .
in each leg ,  the band of muscle that extends from the trochanter into the femur and extends it away from the body .
in each leg ,  the muscle band that extends from the femur to the patella and bends it towards the body .
in each leg ,  the muscle band that extends from the femur into the patella and extends it away from the body .
in each leg ,  the band of muscle that extends from the patella into the tibia and bends it towards the body .
in each leg ,  the band of muscle that extends from the patella into the tibia and extends it away from the body .
in each leg ,  a band of muscle that extends from the tibia into the tarsus and bends it towards the body .
in each leg ,  a band of muscle that extends from the tibia into the tarsus and extends it away from the body .
in each leg ,  the band of muscle that extends from the tarsus and inserts on the pretarsus ,  bending it towards the tarsus .
in each leg ,  the band of muscle that extends from the tarsus ,  inserts on the pretarsus and moves it away from the leg  ( extendsit outwards )  .
the posterior cuticlelined sac that surrounds the internal body of gene's organ .
the corpus is the large sac at the posterior end of the gland that fills with fluid .
a pair of antero - lateral lobe or finger - like projections that are everted during egg waxing .
the outermost part of gene's organ which secretes the cuticular sac and is continuous with the epidermis of the body and capitulum .
accessory glands that occur on either side of the gene's organ .
accessory glands that occur on either side of the gene's organ .
accessory glands associated with the gene's organ that secrete waxy fluids via main efferent ducts into the organ .
the opening at the posterior end of the organ .
the main duct that carries the secretions of the gene's organ tubular glands to the lumen between the epithelial sac and the cuticular sac surrounding the corpus and horns .
the lumen between the epithelium of the epithelial sac and the cuticular sac .
numerous pits located on the surface of the cuticular sac .
these pores are the openings of the tubuli that permeate the cuticle of the cuticular sac and allow waxy secretions to spread out over its surface when the horns are everted .
elongated  ( 247 .5 nm )  submicroscopic tubes that permeate the walls of the cuticular sac ,  opening into the cribate pores on theexternal side of the cuticular sac and the lumen between the epithelial and cuticular sacs on the internal side .
folds  ( mean height 5 .9 microns )  in the epicuticular surface of the external side of the cuticular sac in the lateral regions ofthe corpus and horns .
the blind ending extension of the tubular glands ,  cranial glands and caudal glands .
the fluid filled duct of the tubular end pieces of each gland that empty into the main efferent ducts  ( schol et al .
the cells that line the tubular end pieces and secrete the amorphous waxy fluid that flows into the ducts and eventually out on to the horns to wax the eggs .
innumerable tiny delicate cuticular folds that cover the surfaces of the horms of the gene's organ  ( schol et al .
the fluid filled cavity within which waxy secretions flows into the main duct of the gland  ( schol et al .
duct cells are cells that connect the secretory glandular cells to the cuticular pores of the cuticular sac  ( tissue and cell 16: 589 - 599 )  .
the epithelial layer that secretes the atrial chamber wall .
the cuticle that forms the inner wall of the atrial chamber .
openings  ( pores )  on the epicuticular surface of the cuticular sac .
the ductular zone comprised of numerous ducts connecting the secretory lobes of the foveal gland with the foveal pores .
the cells that form the foveal ducts .
the ampullae are cap - like structures that connect the foveal ducts in the cuticle with the gland ducts below the cuticle .
the pair of porose areas located on the dorsal surface of the body in adult ixodid ticks .
the single layer of cuboidal epithelial cells that forms the wall of this tube .
the thin layer of squamous or cuboidal cells that forms the wall of the rectal sac .
the thin layer of squamous epithelial cells that secretes the cuticle lining of the rectum .
a spine located on the dorsal surface of the inner cheliceral digit .
a band or u - shaped crescentic tube stretched horizontally across the posterior region of the body .
undifferentiated cells that form the epithelial lining and occur between the oogonia or developing oocytes .
the earliest developmental stage cells that will become oocytes .
the outer layer of squamous epithelial cells and smooth muscle cells that surrounds the ovary and forms its wall .
the tunica propria is the amorphous lamellate sheath comprised of multiple layers of fibrillar material ,  collectively about 1micron thick .
the tube - like cavity  ( lumen )  of the ovary .
the layer of epithelial cells ,  mostly interstitial cells interspersed with oogonia ,  that forms the inner lining of the ovary .
an elongated depression on one side of the length of the ovary .
these are the earliest stage in the development of the oocytes that appears soon after attachment and the commencement offeeding in ixodid ticks or soon after the blood meal in the fast feeding argasid ticks .
stage ii oocytes are considerably larger than the stage i oocytes and constitute the next stage in their development .
stage iii oocytes constitute the developmental stage of the oocytes when they first begin to acquire yolk .
the greatly enlarged oocyte filled with enormous masses of yolk spheres .
the final stage in oocyte development .
the funiculus is the narrow tube through which the fully developed stage v oocytes passes into the lumen of the ovary  ( ovulation )  .
the cells that form the funiculus .
the long coiled tube connecting the ovary with the uterus .
the sclerotized outer covering of the egg .
the tiny groove - shaped opening at the end of the developing stage iv oocyte through which mature spermatozoa may enter theoocyte for fertilization .
the lining of the oviduct consists of a thin layer of mostly cuboidal epithelial cells about 25  -  40 microns throughout most ofthe length of this structure .
the outer wall of the oviduct surrounds the epithelial layer .
in argasid ticks ,  the oviducts expand into large thick bulbous structures near the point where the oviducts merge with theuterus .
the uterus is the region of the female reproductive track between the oviducts and the vagina .
the lining of the uterus is formed of a thin layer of cuboidal cells similar to that of the oviducts .
the outer wall of the uterus resembles the structure of the outer wall of the oviducts ,  with a delicate basal lamina ,  connectivetissue fibers and occasional smooth muscle cells .
in ixodid ticks ,  the uterine connecting tube is a short ,  narrow duct that connects the uterus to the cervical vagina .
the thin  ( 2  -  3 microns thick )  layer of cuticle that lines this structure .
the thin layer of epithelial cells that forms part of the wall of the connecting tube .
the layer of smooth muscle cells that surround the connecting tube .
the cervical vagina is the thick muscular zone of the vagina .
in ticks ,  the cervical vagina is lined with a relatively thick zone of highly folded ,  labyrinthine cuticle about 13  -  25 microns thick .
the epithelium of the cervical vagina is many cells thick ,  comprising both cuboidal and tall columnar cells that appear to behighly interdigitated with one another .
a thick band comprised of mutiple layers of smooth muscle cells that form the outer layer of the wall of the cervical vagina .
cuboidal cells are one of the two most common types of cells that form the epithelial layer of the cervical vagina .
the tall columnar cells are one of the most common types of cells that comprise the epithelium of this organ .
the large ,  folded sac - like organ lying just above  ( dorsal )  the cervical vagina and the connecting tube .
the narrow channel within the oviducts that will contain the ova as they migrate down the oviducts to the uterus .
the internal cavity within the uterus where the ova are stored until ready to be discharged from the vagina .
this is the thin layer of cuticle ,  approximately 1  -  2 microns thick ,  that lines the inner sides of this organ .
the epithelium of the seminal receptacle is multi - layered with many large cuboidal cells containing huge nuclei ,  some as largeas 30 microns .
the central cavity of the seminal receptacle where the spermatozoa are stored following insemination by the male aftercopulation .
the vaginal lumen is the cavity at the center of the organ .
the vestibular vagina is the elongated ,  rounded tube that connects the muscular cervical vagina to the female genital pore .
the vestibular vagina is lined with a thin layer of cuticle which is folded into deep folds about 15  -  20 microns thick termedtrabeculae .
the trabeculae constitute the thick folds of the cuticular lining resembling the villi of the human intestine .
this is the thin layer of epithelial cells that secretes the cuticular lining of the vestibular vagaina .
the vestibular sinus is the space between the vestibular vagina and the surrounding lobular accessory gland .
this is the cavity of the vestibular vagina .
the tubular accessory glands  ( tag )  are a pair of glandular structures located at the junction of the cervical vagina with thevestibular vagina .
this is the narrow neck - like region of the gland that serves as the connecting duct between the bulbous glandular portion of the gland and the point where it joins the junction of the cervical and vestibular vagina .
the duct zone of the tubular accessory gland  ( tag )  is lined with a very thin  ( 0 .3 microns )  layer of cuticle .
the epithelium of the tubular accessory gland duct zone consists of a thin ,  one cell thick layer of cuboidal epithelial cells .
the small ,  subcircular cavity of the duct zone that connects with the junction of the vestibular vagina and the cervical vagina .
this is the broad ,  thick vermiform region of the gland filled with large glandular epithelial cells and their supporting cells .
this consists of several layers of large ,  cuboidal secretory cells and stellate  ( non - secretory )  support cells .
these are the cells that secrete masses of proteinaceous material into the tag duct .
these cells are non - secretory cells that occur in the glandular portion of the tag .
the outer wall of the glandular portion of the tag is covered by a thin layer of connective tissue fibers and ocassional smoothmuscle cells .
the lobular accessory gland  ( lag )  is found only in ixodid ticks .
the secretory cells form the major portion of the lag .
multiple ducts are found within the lobes of the lag .
this system consists of the paired ,  tubular testes ,  the paired ,  convoluted vasa deferentia ,  a single seminal vesicle ,  the ejaculatory duct ,  the massive ,  multi - lobed male accessory gland and the genital pore .
most ticks have a pair of elongated ,  tubular testes connected near the midline of the body by a thin isthmus .
the small number of setae ,  typically two pairs ,  located on the ventral surface of the basis capituli just posterior to the origin of the hypostome .
the auriculae are a pair of spines that project posteriorly from the ventral surface of the basis capituli .
a small posteriorly projecting spine located on the posterolateral edge of palpal article i of each palp .
the folds located on the ventrolateral margins on each side of the basis capituli .
the deep fold located on the ventral surface of the basis capituli that extends horizontally across this structure .
the cornuae are spines located at the posterolateral margins on the dorsal surface of the basis capituli .
characteristic of ticks of the genus argas .
tiny flat ,  shiny folds on the surface of the integument in ticks of the genus antricola ,  giving it the appearance of a tuberculated cuticle .
the smooth ,  shinny region on the dorsal surface resembling the scutum .
ball and socket joints are a unique feature of the legs of nuttalliella namaqua ,  the only species of the family nuttalliellidae .
in argasid ticks ,  a narrow cone - shaped anterior extension of the body as seen from the dorsal surface .
the arrangement of the denticles  ( = teeth )  on the hypostome in longitudinal files ,  e .g . ,  two rows on either side of thehypostomal groove = 2 / 2 dentition ,  three rows = 3 / 3 dentition ,  etc .
these are small ridges or slightly recurved projections instead of teeth or true denticles on the hypostome ,  usually innon - feeding males .
dorsal humps are prominent elevations on the dorsal surface of the tarsus in many species of argasid ticks .
these are pits that occur on the surface of sclerotized plates ,  primarily on the scutum .
these are germinal cells that differentiate into spermatogonia .
these are clusters of spermatogonia along with primary and secondary spermatocytes surrounded by a thin - walled epithelium .
the thin layer of epithelial cells that encloses the masses of spermatogonia and spermatocytes .
these are the cells that represent the earliest stage in the process of spermatogenesis .
the outer wall of the testis consists of a thin connective tissue membrane with occasional smooth muscle cells .
this is the narrow central cavity of the tubular testis .
the isthmus is a thin band of epithelial cells that connects the paired testes .
the peritrophic membrane is an amorphous ,  proteinaceous membrane that appears several days after the commencement of feeding .
these are the elongated spermatids that have undergone reduction division .
the paired vasa deferentia are a paired of coiled ,  twisted tubules that extend from the anterior  ( proximal )  end of each testis to the seminal vesicle .
the lining epithelium consists of a thin layer of squamous epithelial cells when the duct is empty of sperm cells ,  or thicker , cuboidal cells when the duct is filled with sperm .
this is the narrow central cavity of the tubular vas deferens .
the common cuticle - lined duct formed by the union of the paired vasa deferentia tgat leads from those organs to the male genital aperture .
the thin layer of cuboidal cells that forms the wall of the duct .
a thin ,  folded layer of cuticle several microns thick that lines the inner surface of the ejaculatory duct .
the narrow internal cavity of the ejaculatory duct .
the rectum is lined with a relatively thick layer of cuticle .
the thin band of cuticle that forms the inner most lining of the esophagus .
the narrow internal cavity of this simple duct .
the internal cavity of the rectal sac .
this is the narrow internal cavity of this short duct .
the anal aperture is the opening between the valves .
the thin layer of cuticle that separates the epithelium of the pharyngeal wall from the lumen .
the thin layer of squamous cells that secretes the cuticular lining of the pharynx .
the very large ,  multilobed gland in the center of the body ,  with connections to the vasa deferentia and the seminal vesicle .
the unpaired ventral granular lobe is the largest lobe of the male accessory gland in both ixodid and argasid ticks .
this is a large ,  unpaired lobe on the dorsal side of the male accessory gland .
a pair of small lobular projections from the antero - dorsal region of the dorsal granular lobe of the male accessory gland inixodid ticks .
this is a pair of elongated ,  lateral projections that extend from the lateral margins of the dorsal granular lobe of the male accessory gland in ixodid ticks .
the pair of small projections that extend from the dorso - lateral margins of the dorsal lobe of the male accessory gland in ixodid ticks .
a pair of elongated ,  tube - like projections that extend from the main body of the male accessory gland of ixodid ticks and project posteriorly .
a pair of elongated ,  tube - like extensions of the ventral granular lobe of the male accessory gland in ixodid ticks .
the cell type in the lobes of the male accessory gland that primarily contain electron dense granules .
these cells occur in the granular lobes .
the epithelial covering of the lobes of the male accessory gland is comprised of large cuboidal and tall columnar cells .
the spongy lobe of the male accessory gland is the only lobe that lacks granule - filled cells .
in some species of argasid ticks  ( e .g . ,  ornithodoros kelleyi )  ,  the uterus is very large and bifurcated into a pair of posteriorly - directed horns ,  the uterine horns .
these cells appear in late stage nymphs of argasid ticks and during nymphal development  ( following feeding )  in ixodid ticks .
the sclerotized flap or plate that covers the genital aperture in the adult male .
the spermatophore is not a permament part of the male anatomy .
this is the temporary external sac of the spermatophore .
the temporary proteinaceous sacs that will carry the masses of greatly elongated prospermia into the female's genital tract .
the wall of the esophagus is a thin layer of squamous and cuboidal epithelial cells .
a pair of glands situated on either side of the gene's organ in ixodid ticks .
the secretory cells that comprise the accessory glands .
the pores on the dorsal surface of the basis capituli through the secretions of the acinar cells are passed to the external surface  ( tissue and cell 1984 ,  16: 589  -  599 )  .
these are cells that connect the acinar cells of the gland to the cuticular ducts through which the cell secretions are passed to the exterior  ( tissue and cell 1984 ,  16: 589  -  599 )  .
small glands found below the spiracular plate in ixodid ticks .
the tiny openings in the spiracular goblets through which the secretions from the spiracular glands pass to the exterior .
this is the main cavity that fills with water and salts extracted from the hemolymph .
in argasid ticks ,  the first of three lobes that extend from the posterolateral end of the ventral granular lobe of the maleaccessory gland .
in argasid ticks ,  the second of three lobes that extend from the posterolateral end of the ventral granular lobe of the male accessory gland .
in argasid ticks ,  the third of three lobes that extend from the posterolateral end of the ventral granular lobe of the maleaccessory gland .
this is the cavity through which ingested blood flows to the midgut .
in ixodid ticks ,  a delicate membrane covers the preoral canal and separates it from the salivarium .
posteriorly project spines that occur on one or more of the four pairs of coxae .
narrow bifurcated duct that connects the acinus with the intralobular ducts .
the thin layer of cuticule that forms the inner lining of this duct .
the narrow channel of this duct that leads into the intralobular duct lumen .
the layer of squamous epithelial cells that forms the outer wall of the duct and secretes the cuticular lining .
the relatively thick layer of cuticle lining the inner surface of the lobular duct .
the cavity of the lobular duct .
a pair of small cells that surround the acinar duct .
the main salivary duct is lined with a relatively thick ,  banded cuticular layer resembling the taenidium of the tracheae .
the layer of epithelial cells surrounding the cutiuclar lining ,  forming the outer part of the wall of the salivary duct .
the cavity of the salivary duct .
the wall of the aorta is lined with a thin layer of squamous epithelium surrounded by layers of smooth muscle cells .
the cavity of the duct that conveys hemolymph anteriorly towards the periganglionic sinus .
this is the muscularized zone at the anteior end of the heart where the heart fuses with the aorta .
the thin membranous layer that surrounds the heart and encloses the pericardial sinus .
the cavity of the heart containing filtered hemolymph that is circulated anteriorly and out into the aorta .
the fully mature capacitated  ( differentiated )  sperm cells that are capable of migrating up the oviducts to the ovary and fertilizing the oocytes .
the adult sensory system consists of the variety of sensory ogans ,  or sensilla ,  the detect chemical compounds  ( e .g . ,  odors ,  taste )  ,  contact with objects or surfaces ,  light or shadows ,  temperature and humidty changes .
the hair - like body of the seta that extends from the setal socket in the cuticle .
the photocreceptor neurons that detect light .
the layer of cells that surrounds and nourishes the retinal neurons in the eye .
in amblyomm americanum ,  the pore canals in the lens are organized into bundles and oriented in the dorso - ventral axis .
the cavity of the malpighian tubules that contains numerous irridescent ,  spherical and subspherical guanine crystals of varying size .
the peripheral nerve neurilemma is the amorphous ,  non - cellular layer that surrounds each nerve .
the atrial muscles insert on the dorsal and ventral walls of the atrial chamber .
cavity surrounding the part of the esophagus that passes through the synganglion .
the large tracheal trunk that anastomoses into numerous small tracheae that envelope and supply the synganglion and its associated structures .
a neurosecretory tract  ( commissure )  located in the dorsal region of the supraesophageal ganglion .
a rdige on the dorsal surface of the supraesophageal region of the synganglion .
a major commissure connecting different regions of the supreesophageal region of the synganglion .
this neurosecretory tract is formed by axons primarily from the stomodeal neurosecretory tract .
a cluster a neuron cell bodies ,  presumably forming a neurosecretory center ,  adjacent to the ventral edge of the supraesophagealregion where the esophagus enters .
this is the chiasmatic neurosecretory pathway of pedal ganglion ii  ( according to wikipedia ,  a chiasma is a point where two or more nerves or nerve pathways cross )  .
the lateral neurosecretory tract  ( nst )  extends between the supra -  and sub - esophageal regions of the synganglion and connectsdifferent neurosecretory centers in both regions .
these neurosecretory tracts  ( nsts )  extend from the neurosecretory centers in the subesophageal region to the lateral - neurosecretory tract .
one of the two types of epithelial cells that develop after blood feeding when the malpighian tubules are metabolically active in processing excretory wastes into guanine crystals .
the primary cell type found in the lining epithelium of the malphighian tubules .
in the ovipositing female ,  these swollen areas are covered with innumerable ledges that lie medial to the horms of the gland .
the suspensory cord to which the retractor muscles of the gland attach .
during blood feeding ,  these enormously enlarged ,  fully differentiated digestive cells fill with hematin .
paired midgut diverticula that extend from the anterior diverticula towards the anterior end of the body .
paired midgut diverticula that extend from the anterior diverticulum on each side and protrude laterally towards the anterior lateral margins of the body .
a small aciniform gland attached to the terminal end of the coxal tubule ,  near its junction with the coxal pore .
tip - pore sensilla located on the dorsal side of the terminal end of the tarsus at the junction with the tarsal apotele ,  these sensilla ,  which occur only in the males ,  were reported to recognize the female mounting sex pheromone .
these are setiform  ( i .e . ,  hair - like )  sensilla in which the walls are covered by innumerable tiny submicroscopic pores .
these are setiform  ( i .e . ,  hair - like )  sensilla in which the walls contain very pores in faint grooves along the margins .
these are setiform sensilla that occur in the cluster of sensilla on the tip of palpal article iv ,  along the distal margins of tarsus i adjacent to the apotele ,  and possibly in the haller's organ .
setiform sensilla that lack any evidence of pores .
in a few species ,  a third multiporose setiform sensillum also occurs in the anterior pit of haller's organ .
these are tip pore sensilla similar to the dorsal pair .
the two pits that occur on the inner cheliceral digits .
biological entity ,  which constitutes the structural organization of a biological organism ,  or is an attribute of thatorganization .
material anatomical entity which has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ,  with or without the admixture of cells and biologicalmacromolecules ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified byanatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  which is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  issurrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity which has mass .
physical anatomical entity which is a three - dimensional space ,  surface ,  line or point associated with a material physicalanatomical entity .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of ananatomical surface .
non - material anatomical entity of zero dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical line or surface .
non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions ,  that is demarcated by anatomical lines or points on the external or internal surfaces of anatomical structures .
anatomical group that is has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lowerlevel of granularity .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure which has as its direct parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
anatomical structure which is a direct part of the cell .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
multi - tissue structure that is not part of a compound organ .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which throughspecific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinctanatomical structures of different types .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
multi - cellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
multi - cellular organism that does not produce gametes .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
anatomical structure that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contributeto the embryo .
anatomical structure ,  which consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determinedspatial relationships .
hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of one sex ,  and then later of the other sex .
hermaphroditic organism that produces both male and female gametes at the same time .
multi - cellular organism that has male and female sexes .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces \ ngametes first of the male sex ,  and then later of the \ nfemale sex .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces \ ngametes first of the female sex ,  and then later of the \ nmale sex .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cellsof different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which throughspecific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinctstructural units of different types .
anatomical space that is part of a cell .
portion of organism substance located within a cell .
cell that is an individual member of a species .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of anepithelium .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and whichis underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium that consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium that consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
compound organ that does not contain macroscopic anatomical spaces .
cell which has as its part a cytoskeleton that allows for tight cell to cell contact and which has apical - basal cell polarity .
cell which has as its part a cytoskeleton that allows for tight cell to cell contact and which has apical - basal cell polarity .
