the direction of change in the mutant compared to wild type .
the observed phenotype is detectably different from that in the wild type .
the observed feature is decreased compared to that in the wild type  ( slower ,  weaker ,  lower ,  smaller ,  etc .
the observed feature is increased compared to that in the wild type  ( faster ,  stronger ,  higher ,  larger ,  etc .
the observed feature is not detectable in the mutant .
a description of the effect of the mutation on the gene product function .
the mutation results in expression of the gene product at a developmental stage ,  in a cell type ,  or at a subcellular location different from that at which the wild - type gene is expressed .
the mutation causes expression of the otherwise normal gene product to higher levels than wild - type .
the mutation increases the normal activity of a gene product .
the mutation confers a new activity on the gene product .
the mutation abolishes completely the function of the gene product .
the mutation leads to reduction of levels of the gene product ,  often through the use of a repressible promoter .
the mutation reduces the activity of the gene product .
the activity of the gene product is normal under some conditions and altered under others .
the mutation type is not specified in the reference .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
features of ascomycete fungal cells ,  cultures ,  or colonies that can be detected ,  observed ,  measured ,  or monitored .
a description of the experimental approach .
obsolete .robotic generation and analysis of large - scale ,  genome - wide knockout sets .
phenotypic analysis of one or a few mutant strains in small - scale ,  focused experiments that do not require knowledge of the entire genome sequence .
quantitative data on survival of a mutant strain ,  obtained in large scale experiments where mutants are grown together with wild type or other mutants for many generations .
the enzymatic or other activity of a protein .
developmental processes .
the formation of a bud ,  which develops into a daughter cell during asexual reproduction .
localization of the newly emerging bud near the site of the previous bud .
localization of the emerging bud at the cell pole opposite the previous bud site .
growth in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
penetration of cells into a solid substrate during filamentous growth .
growth in a pattern that occurs in conditions of nitrogen limitation and abundant fermentable carbon source .
the duration of the life of an individual organism .
the process of sexual reproduction .
the interaction between organisms leading to mating .
the fusion of individual cells from each partner during mating .
the proportion of cells within a population that are able to mate .
the fusion of the nuclei of two mating cells .
the production of mating pheromones .
sensitivity to mating pheromones produced by cells of the opposite mating type .
an alteration of morphology such that the cell has a mating projection ,  formed in response to mating pheromone by cells of saccharomyces and other fungi with similar life cycles .
a specialized cell division in which a single diploid cell undergoes two nuclear divisions following a single round of dna replication in order to produce four daughter cells that contain half the number of chromosomes as the diploid cell .
the exchange of genetic material between non - sister chromatids in a pair of homologous chromosomes during meiosis .
the formation of ascospores ,  which are the products of meiosis .
the production of viable cells arising from sexual spores .
the biogenesis of specialized cell walls around developing ascospores .
the percentage of diploid cells in a population that undergo meiosis and form spores under sporulation - inducing conditions .
the sterile phenotype is the inability to mate with cells of the opposite mating type under conditions that normally promote mating .
repression of transcription by altering the structure of chromatin ,  e .g .
integration of a transposable element  into new positions in the genome .
the ability to cause disease in another organism .
the size or shape of subcellular structures ,  cells ,  or multicellular structures .
the size or shape of cells .
the shape of the cell .
the size of the cell .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the cell wall .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the cytoskeleton .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the mitochondria .
the size or shape of the bud neck ,  which is the region where the bud joins the mother cell .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the nucleus .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the peroxisomes .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the vacuole .
the appearance of colonies of cells growing on a solid substrate .
the color of colonies of cells growing on a solid substrate .
the shape of colonies of cells growing on a solid substrate .
the size of colonies of cells growing on a solid substrate .
the appearance of a liquid culture of cells .
adhesion and aggregation of cells in liquid culture to produce clumps of cells .
processes occurring at the cellular level .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
the division of the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells .
a cycle of dna replication and cell division via mitosis .
transport of substances within cells .
the delivery and degradation of autophagy markers to the vacuole via the autophagic pathway .
the uptake and delivery of external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
import of proteins into mitochondria .
transport of proteins or rnas into or out of the nucleus .
transport of proteins out of the cell by fusion of a membrane - bounded vesicle containing the proteins by fusion of the vesicle with the plasma membrane .
transport of proteins into the vacuole .
the level of resistance to stress conditions .
the level of resistance to killer toxin ,  which is encoded on double - stranded rna viruses carried by some yeast strains .
the level of resistance to high or low osmolarity .
the level of resistance to oxidative stress .
the level of resistance to radiation .
the level of resistance to ultraviolet radiation .
the level of resistance to x ray exposure .
the level of resistance to exposure to chemicals .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
the percentage or fraction of budded cells in a population .
the level of resistance to a specific metal or metals .
the level of resistance to starvation conditions .
sensitivity to temperatures that are higher or lower than optimal growth temperature .
the ability to survive a period of exposure to extremely high temperature  ( heat shock )  .
processes relating to metabolism and growth .
the production and / or storage of a specified chemical compound .
the ability to utilize specified substances as nutrients .
the inability of an organism to synthesize a specified organic compound required for its growth .
the ability to utilize the specified compound as a carbon source .
the ability to utilize the specified compound as a source of nitrogen .
uptake of nutrients into a cell .
growth with energy derived from fermentation ;  growth on a fermentable carbon source such as glucose .
growth with energy derived from respiration ;  growth on a non - fermentable carbon source .
obsolete .
the frequency with rho -   ( rho minus )  mutations occur ,  in this process ,  all of the mitochondrial genome except for a relatively short segment is lost .
the maintenance of a stable and complete mitochondrial genome .
growth under standard culture conditions  ( liquid or solid media )  .
obsolete: growth rate in liquid culture during the exponential phase .
obsolete: growth rate in liquid culture during the post - diauxic phase .
the rate of survival in liquid stationary phase cultures .
the ability of a mutant strain to grow or survive under conditions of direct competition with wild type or other mutants .
the proportion of cells in a sample that are viable ,  i .e .
the inability to grow under standard growth conditions .
the ability to grow under standard growth conditions .
generation and analysis of genome - wide sets of mutants that typically utilizes robotic methods .
obsolete .this term defined as 'novel techniques' has been obsoleted as it was a remnant of the original mutant types that has not been used .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
the observed phenotype shows no detectable difference between the mutant and the wild type .
the location of the nucleus or nuclei within a cell or between separating cells .
the size of the nucleus .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the actin cytoskeleton .
obsolete: this term was not defined before being obsoleted .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
resumption of the cell cycle after the arrest that occurs in response to the presence of mating pheromones from cells of the opposite mating type .
arrest of the cell cycle that occurs in response to the presence of mating pheromones from cells of the opposite mating type .
the ability to utilize the specified compound as a source of phosphorus .
transport of proteins or rnas into or out of the nucleus .
export of proteins or rnas from the nucleus .
import of proteins into peroxisomes .
delivery of proteins to specific locations .
transport of small molecules into ,  out of ,  or within the cell .
the covalent modification of a specified protein .
localization of specific rnas within the cell .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
the cell volume  ( or size )  which must be attained before cells can pass through start ,  a checkpoint which operates in g1 ,  and commit to a full round of cell division .
the cell volume  ( or size )  which must be attained before cells can pass from g2 into m phase and commit to the completion of mitosis .
the stable maintenance of chromosomes or plasmids .
the average length of telomeres .
the oxidation of nutrients to generate atp ,  performed by enzymes of the mitochondrial inner membrane .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
sensitivity to temperatures that are higher than optimal growth temperature .
sensitivity to temperatures that are lower than optimal growth temperature .
abundance of a specified peptide / protein ;  production to a certain level .
obsolete .mutation abolishes function of both alleles of the gene in a diploid strain .
obsolete .mutation abolishes function of one allele of the gene in a diploid strain .
the heterozygous diploid displays a decreased growth rate relative to a diploid that is homozygous wild type at that locus .
the formation of smaller than wild - type colonies on fermentable carbon sources  ( e .g . ,  glucose )  ,  due to a respiratory defect .
the petite - negative phenotype arises from mutation in a nuclear gene that is not essential in an otherwise wild - type strain with an intact mitochondrial genome ,  but becomes essential in strains lacking the mitochondrial genome ,  referred to as rho -  or rho0 .
an energy - dependent ,  programmed form of cell death that is characterized by phenotypic markers such as increased levels of reactive oxygen species  ( often detected via dhe staining )  ,  externalization of phosphatidylserine  ( measured by annexin v staining )  ,  and dna fragmentation  ( detected using the tunel assay )  .
obsolete: the rate of growth in the presence of a fermentable carbon source .
the ability to utilize the specified compound as a source of iron .
the appearance of a population of cells .
the ability to form a layer on solid surfaces with or without other microorganisms .
obsolete .this term was not defined before being made obsolete .
the level of resistance to treatment with enzymes .
the level of resistance to ionizing radiation .
the level of resistance to gamma radiation .
conversion of a cell of one mating type to a different mating type .
formation of wedge - shaped sectors ,  with a different color or appearance ,  in colonies of cells growing on a solid substrate .
the frequency with which mutations occur .
the pattern of chitin deposition in the cell wall .
the pattern with which buds emerge from a mother cell .
the level of resistance to acidic ph .
the level of resistance to alkaline ph .
the level of resistance to low osmolarity .
the level of resistance to high osmolarity .
the level of resistance to ionic stress .
classical genetics experiments carried out in a diploid background ,  where alleles of the gene being described are not identical .
classical genetics experiments carried out in a diploid background ,  where both alleles of the gene being described are identical .
the physical separation of chromosomes and their distribution to two or more sets during mitosis or meiosis .
the location ( s )  where the specified protein is found within the cell .
metabolism during growth in the absence of oxygen .
obsolete: the rate of growth in the absence of oxygen .
the size or shape of the bud .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the mitotic or meiotic spindle .
the position of the mitotic or meiotic spindle pole body .
the level of resistance to toxins ,  poisonous compounds that are produced by cells or organisms .
the ability of an organism to reproduce and to produce viable progeny .
the essentiality of a gene for survival under standard conditions for growth of that organism .
the balance of oxidized and reduced molecules in the cell .
the ability to utilize the specified compound as a source of sulfur .
a form of cell death that is distinct from apoptosis .
formation of a septum between dividing cells .
the excretion from the cell of a specified chemical compound .
the outward appearance or shape of the mating projection .
abundance of a specified rna or class of rnas .
measures of the rate of recombination or total recombination observed during the mitotic cell cycle .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of subcellular organelles or structures .
obsolete .arrest of cells in the s phase of the cell cycle ,  the phase in which dna replication occurs .
the mutation results in a gene product that interferes with the function of the normal ,  wild - type gene product .
any large - scale survey where the experiments are carried out in a homozygous diploid background .
any large - scale survey where the experiments carried our are in a heterozygous diploid background .
any competitive growth experiment carried out in a homozygous diploid background .
any competitive growth experiment carried out in a heterozygous diploid background .
robotic generation and analysis of large - scale ,  genome - wide haploid knockout sets .
robotic generation and analysis of large - scale ,  genome - wide knockout sets carried out in a homozygous diploid background .
robotic generation and analysis of large - scale ,  genome - wide mutation sets carried out in a heterozygous diploid .
obsolete .arrest of cells at the transition between the g2 and m phases of the mitotic cell cycle .
a form of autophagy selective for peroxisomes that occurs in response to starvation ,  damage or as a homeostatic mechanism to regulate the levels of this organelle .
a form of autophagy selective for mitochondria that occurs in response to starvation ,  damage or during a shift in environmental conditions .
the level of resistance to one or more cycles of freezing and thawing .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of lipid particles or droplets ,  subcellular structures consisting of a hydrophobic core of neutral lipids  ( triacylglycerol and steryl esters )  ,  surrounded by a phospholipid monolayer with a small quantity of embedded proteins including enzymes involved in lipid biosynthesis .
the size ,  shape or appearance of the golgi apparatus or its parts .
observed feature is decreased with respect to time compared to that in the wild type  ( slower )  .
observed feature is increased with respect to time compared to that in the wild type  ( faster ,  accelerated )  .
observed feature occurs over a decreased period of time relative to wild type .
observed feature occurs over an increased period of time relative to wild type .
observed feature occurs after being postponed for a period of time relative to wild type .
observed feature does not occur in a given time period relative to wild type .
observed feature occurs too soon ,  existing before the proper or usual time compared to wild type .
observed feature occurs at the same time relative to wild type .
progression of cells through the mitotic cell cycle .
progression of cells through the g2 phase or second gap phase of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of mitosis .
progression of cells through the g1 or first gap phase of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the interval between the completion of mitosis and the beginning of dna synthesis .
passage of cells through cell cycle control point or checkpoint located late in the g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle just prior to s phase entry ;  passage through start results in commits cells to progression through the entire cell cycle .
progression of cells from g2 phase to m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
progression of cells through the m phase of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the phase in which mitosis occurs .
progression of cells from metaphase to anaphase during m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
progression of cells through anaphase during m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
progression of cells through early anaphase during m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
progression of cells through mid anaphase during m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
progression of cells through late anaphase during m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
progression of cells through metaphase during m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
progression of cells through telophase ,  the last of the stages of mitosis during m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
progression of cells through s phase ,  the part of the mitotic cell cycle where dna synthesis occurs .
entry of cells into the g0 or stationary phase of the mitotic cell cycle ,  where they enter a quiescent state .
exit of cells from the g0 or stationary phase of the mitotic cell cycle ,  where they move from a quiescent state to one where growth and division resumes in the g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
progression of cells from g1 phase to s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  or its parts .
covalent modification of a specified rna ;  type of modification specified .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the nucleolus or its parts .
the presence or absence of prions .
the transmission of prions from a mother cell to a daughter cell during budding .
the conversion from the state of being prion - free to the state of having prions .
the conversion from the state of having prions to the state of being prion - free .
observed feature does not change with respect to time compared to that in the wild type .
any classical genetics experiment carried out in a haploid background .
any competitive growth experiment carried out in a haploid background .
any large - scale survey experiment carried out in a haploid background .
any classical genetics experiment carried out in an aneuploid background ,  where the strain carries more or fewer copies than normal of a large chromosomal region ,  or of one or more entire chromosomes .
any large - scale survey experiment carried out in an aneuploid background .
any competitive growth experiment carried out in an aneuploid background .
robotic generation and analysis of large - scale ,  genome - wide knockout sets carried out in a haploid background .
robotic generation and analysis of large - scale ,  genome - wide knockout sets carried out in an aneuploid background .
processes relating to interaction with the environment or with a host organism .
adherence to a substrate in the environment or in a host .
the response to visible light .
obsolete: the induction of an allergic response in the host organism .
the development of a discrete anatomical structure .
the production of secondary metabolites ,  which are compounds that are not directly involved in normal growth ,  development or reproduction .
the ability to utilize the specified compound as a source of zinc .
the ability to utilize the specified compound as a source of magnesium .
the formation of conidia ,  which are asexual spores .
the localization and placement of a particular organelle .
the localization and placement of mitochondria within a cell or between separating cells .
the localization and placement of peroxisomes within a cell or between separating cells .
the localization and placement of vacuoles within a cell or between separating cells .
the localization and placement of endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  within a cell or between separating cells .
the localization and placement of the golgi apparatus within a cell or between separating cells .
the localization and placement of secretory ,  endocytic ,  or undefined vesicles within a cell or between separating cells .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of components of the endomembrane system ,  which includes the nuclear envelope ,  endoplasmic reticulum ,  golgi apparatus ,  peroxisomes ,  vacuoles ,  and endocytic and exocytic vesicles .
any classical genetics experiment carried out in a heterozygous diploid background .
any classical genetics experiment carried out in a homozygous diploid background .
the production of viable cells arising from conidia ,  or asexual spores .
growth in the absence of oxygen .
growth while utilizing a fermentable carbon source .
growth while utilizing a nonfermentable carbon source .
growth in liquid culture during the exponential phase .
growth in liquid culture during the post - diauxic phase .
the cessation of the life of an individual cell .
a regulated form of cell death that occurs in stationary phase mycelial cultures of filamentous fungi ,  often in response to carbon starvation .
the breaking apart of a fully formed cell .
the size ,  shape ,  or appearance of the plasma membrane .
the number of days that a culture remains viable in stationary phase .
the number of divisions that a cell undergoes before dying .
an interaction is inferred when a bait protein ,  tagged with luciferase ,  is enzymatically detected in immunoprecipitates of the prey protein as light emission .
formation of chlamydospores ,  which are large ,  asexual ,  one - celled spores with a thickened ,  refractile cell wall that are borne on the ends of suspensor cells attached to hyphae or pseudohyphae .
formation of an elongated evagination that develops from a yeast - form cell and continues growth to become a hyphal cell .
the ability to undergo a reversible change from one distinct phenotype to another ,  resulting from changes in gene expression rather than from mutation .
the ability of a pathogen to survive an attack by host cells such as neutrophils .
the ability of a pathogen to evade or escape phagocytosis by host cells such as macrophages .
the level of resistance to air - drying or desiccation stress .
the level of resistance to increased hydrostatic pressure .
any classical genetics experiment carried out in a background where the ploidy of the mutation or strain is unknown .
the induction of host immune cell differentiation ,  cytokine secretion ,  cytokine transcriptional regulation or other related host responses to infection by or contact with a microbe .
the heterozygous diploid displays an increased growth rate relative to a diploid that is homozygous wild type at that locus .
the formation of a coating of extracellular polysaccharide material ,  as in fungi such a cryptococcus .
formation of a protrusion in a subapical hyphal cell that fuses with a clamp cell to form a fused clamp ,  in basidiomycetes .
the ability to survive a period of exposure to an acute heat shock after brief pretreatment at a mildly elevated temperature .
the natural or innate ability of a cell to survive a period of exposure to an acute heat shock without pretreatment .
the size of the nucleolus .
the gain or loss of a chromosome ,  so that the cell has a number of chromosomes that is not a multiple of the usual complement .
the gain of an entire set or sets of chromosomes beyond the usual complement .
a form of microautophagy selective for the nucleusâ that occurs in response to starvation ,  damage or during a shift in environmental conditions .
a form of macroautophagy selective for ribosomes that occurs in response to starvation ,  damage or during a shift in environmental conditions .
a form of macroautophagy selective for the endoplasmic reticulum that occurs in response to starvation ,  er stress ,  aggregate accumulation or during a shift in environmental conditions .
selective degradation of nucleoplasm that occurs upon nitrogen starvation ,  in which parts of the nucleus and perinuclear er are packaged into autophagosomes and delivered to the vacuole for degradation .
the autophagic degradation of bulk nucleoplasm that occurs after prolonged nitrogen starvation .
