an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
p is a process boundary =def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
b is a continuant fiat boundary = def .
a cavity developed along a bedding - plane and elongate in cross - section as a result .
an anthropogenic geographic feature is a geographic feature resulting from the influence of human beings on nature .
mine tailings are the materials left over after the process of separating the valuable fraction from the uneconomic fraction  ( gangue )  of an ore .
a primary administrative division of a country ,  such as a state in the united states .
a subdivision of a first - order administrative division .
a subdivision of a second - order administrative division .
a subdivision of a third - order administrative division .
a political association with effective dominion over a geographic area .
a construction which enables the movement of humans ,  their animals or their vehicles .
an enclosure for displaying selected plant or animal life .
a geographical feature associated with water .
a collection of caves interconnected by enterable passages or linked hydrologically or a cave with an extensive complex of chambers and passages .
artificial watercourse with no flow or a controlled flow used for navigation ,  drainage or irrigation .
a marine water body which is constitutes the majority of an astronomical body's hydrosphere .
a large expanse of saline water usually connected with an ocean .
a geographical feature associated with water with a halinity above 30 ppt  ( roughly 35 g / l )  .
a river that has either permanently or temporally lost its water .
a lake whose water contains a considerable concentration of dissolved salts .
a body of water or other liquid of considerable size contained in a depression on a landmass .
a lake of whose water contains low concentrations of salts .
a stream which ,  through permanent or seasonal flow processes ,  moves from elevated land towards lower elevations through a definite channel and empties either into a sea ,  lake ,  or another river or ends on land as bed seepage and evapotranspiration exceed water supply .
a watercourse which is linear and flows across the solid portion of a planetary surface .
a stream whose flow is not continuous .
an artificial body of water ,  often contained by a dam ,  constructed for the purpose of water storage .
a cylindrical hole ,  pit ,  or tunnel drilled or dug down to a depth from which water ,  oil ,  or gas can be pumped or brought to the surface .
a point where groundwater or steam flows out of the ground ,  and is thus where the aquifer surface meets the ground surface or where there is a fissure .
a quarry from which sand is extracted .
a flowing body of water .
a cave without streams or drips of water .
a valley or ravine ,  bounded by relatively steep banks ,  which in the rainy season becomes a watercourse .
an area of water bordered by land on three sides .
a body of water ,  usually of smaller size than a lake .
an area of broken ,  fast flowing water in a stream ,  where the slope of the bed increases  ( but without a prominent break of slope which might result in a waterfall )  ,  or where a gently dipping bar of harder rock outcrops .
a wetland ecosystem which includes communities of grasses ,  rushes ,  reeds ,  typhas ,  sedges ,  and other herbaceous plants  ( possibly with low - growing woody plants )  .
artificial watercourse with no flow or a controlled flow used irrigation .
a small ,  human - made channel which has been dug for draining or irrigating the land .
a sheet of saline water separated from the open sea by sand or shingle banks .
a long and narrow sea inlet with high steeply sloped walled sides .
a sudden descent of water over a step or ledge in the bed of a river .
a tidal water channel .creeks may often dry to a muddy channel with little or no flow at low tide ,  but often with significant depth of water at high tide .
artificial watercourse with no flow or a controlled flow used drainage .
an vegetated area which overlaps a wetland ecosystem .
a wetland ecosystem which accumulates acidic peat ,  a deposit of dead plant material .
a semi - enclosed coastal body of water with one or more rivers or streams flowing into it ,  and with a free connection to the open sea .
a dense growth of shrubbery planted as a fence or boundary .
artificial watercourse with no flow or a controlled flow used navigation .
a hot spring that erupts periodically ,  ejecting a column of hot water and steam into the air .
a spring that is produced by the emergence of geothermally - heated groundwater from the earth's crust .
a lake contained within a volcanic crater .
a marsh in which soils are saturated with water that contains low concentrations of salts .
a marsh whose water contains a considerable quantity of dissolved salts .
a shallow man - made pond designed to produce salt from sea water .
a pond or lake used for the artificial culture of fish .
a swamp which is located in tropical or subtropical environments and is determined by communities of trees and shrubs growing saline coastal environments .
a lake which is formed under the surface of the earth .
a river that is under the surface of the earth .
a stream that is under the surface of the earth .
a geographical feature associated with water that is under the surface of the earth .
place or area with clustered or scattered buildings and a permanent human population .
an accumulation of water of varying size .
an open way for the passage of vehicles ,  persons ,  or animals on land .
a permanent way having one or more rails which provides a track for cars .
a tunnel constructed by human means .
naturally formed ,  subterranean open area or chamber .
an underground or underwater passage .
a stream that branches off and flows away from a main stream channel .
a construction that has been assembled by deliberate human effort .
a cave developed along a fault or fault zone ,  either by movement of the fault or by preferential solution along it .
structure designed to transport water from a remote source ,  usually by gravity .
a permanent walled and roofed construction .
a barrier constructed across a watercourse to control the flow or raise the level of water .
a built structure erected over a depression or obstacle to carry traffic or some facility such as a pipeline .
an excavation in the earth for the purpose of extracting earth materials .
an area of land which is used for the cultivation of crops or grazing of livestock ,  including any agricultural constructions therein .
an open artificial water channel ,  that leads water from a diversion dam or weir completely aside a natural flow ,  often an elevated box structure  ( typically wood )  that follows the natural contours of the land .
a series of connected and aligned mountains or mountain ridges .
a landform that extends above the surrounding terrain in a limited area .
a group of hills bordered by lowlands .
a rounded elevation of limited extent rising above the surrounding land with local relief of less than 300m .
a lower point that allows easier access through a mountain range .
a glacier contained in the site of a mountain valley .
a region of general uniform slope ,  comparatively level ,  and of considerable extent .
a slope which is part of a rocky elevation and which has a high degree of steepness .
a cliff that is a margin of a sea or ocean .
an area of flat ,  low - lying land adjacent to a coast and separated from the interior by other features .
a landform consisting of loose rock particles such as sand ,  gravel ,  shingle ,  pebbles ,  cobble ,  or even shell fragments along the shoreline of a body of water .
a landform consisting of loose rock particles such as sand ,  gravel ,  shingle ,  pebbles ,  cobble ,  or even shell fragments along the shoreline of a sea .
a landform consisting of loose rock particles such as sand ,  gravel ,  shingle ,  pebbles ,  cobble ,  or even shell fragments along the shoreline of a lake .
a part of an astronomical body associated with a volcano  -  an opening ,  or rupture ,  in that body's surface or crust  -  which allows hot ,  molten rock ,  ash and gases to escape from deep below the surface .
a feature formed by cooled lava ,  the molten rock that is expelled by a volcano during an eruption .
a feature formed by the collapse of land following a volcanic eruption .
a region rendered barren or partially barren by environmental extremes ,  especially by low rainfall .
area of dry or relatively dry land surrounded by water or low wetland .
an island constructed by human effort .
a depression which has been formed as a result of erosion by water or ice and which is low - lying ,  bordered by higher ground ,  and especially elongate .
a tract of alluvium formed at the mouth of a river where the deposition ofsome of its load exceeds its rate of removal ,  crossed by the divergent channels  ( distributaries )  of the river .
an island formed of trees and shrubs that grow in saline coastal habitats in the tropics and subtropics .
an area in which grasses  ( graminae )  are a significant component of the vegetation .
an upland moor or sandy area dominated by low shrubby vegetation including heather .
a grassland ecosystem which contains a variety of annual ,  biennial and perennial plants growing on rolling or flat terrain .
land having a cover of trees ,  shrubs ,  or both .
a tunnel formed by the flow of molten lava ,  which has subsequently drained out .
an area with a high density of trees .
a vegetated area which is part of a tundra ecosystem .
a geographical feature modified by humans by the preparation of the land ,  usually for the purposes of growing crops .
a field which is located on land and used for agricultural purposes ,  such as the grazing of livestock or the cultivation of crops .
an intentional planting of trees or shrubs maintained for food ,  typically fruit ,  production .
a place where grapes are grown for making wine ,  raisins or table grapes .
an intentional planting of a crop ,  on a large scale ,  usually for uses other than cereal production or pasture .
a forest that has been intentionally established by human intervention .
a small road ,  generally not paved .
a geographical region whose affairs and population are administered by an authority .
a political entitity established by more than one state and with at least some influence over the affairs of its member states .
a spring whose water contains a significant amount of dissolved minerals ,  that derive from the rocks through which the water flows .
a spring whose water contains a significant amount of dissolved derivatives of sulfur .
an arid terrain with clay - rich soil that has been extensively eroded by wind and water .
a valley that no longer has a surface flow of water .
a valley that contains ,  and has been formed by ,  a stream .
a ridge of rocks ,  lying near the surface of the sea ,  which may be visible at low tide ,  but is usually covered by water .
a hydrographic feature characterized by the dominance of snow or ice .
a glacier which covers an area of greater than 50 , 000 square kilometers .
an ice mass which is of sufficient mass that the action of gravity upon it overcomes the frictional forces holding it in place ,  causing it to deform and flow towards lower elevation .
soil or rock and included ice or organic material at or below the freezing point of water  ( 0 degrees celsius or 32 degrees fahrenheit )  for two or more years .
a geographical region that serves the purpose of keeping two or more other areas  ( often ,  but not necessarily ,  countries )  distant from one another ,  for whatever reason .
a geographical area ,  usually the frontier or boundary between two or more military powers  ( or alliances )  ,  where military activity is not permitted ,  usually by peace treaty ,  armistice or other bilateral or multilateral agreement .
an opening of the sea into the land .
a circular or round inlet with a narrow entrance .
a ditch that supplies water to surrounding land .
a ditch that collects water from the surrounding land .
the sloping margin of a watercourse ,  serving to confine it to its natural channel .
the sloping margin of a stream ,  serving to confine it to its natural channel .
the sloping margin of a river ,  serving to confine it to its natural channel .
a habitat that is in or on water .
a dome - shaped ice mass that covers less than 50 , 000 km2 of land area  ( usually covering a highland area )  .
a region of permanent snow in mountainous areas or high latitudes .
the region occupied by any more or less continuous ,  directed movement of ocean water that flows in one of the earth's oceans .
a shallow stretch of a river or stream ,  where the current is above the average stream velocity and where the water forms small rippled waves as a result .
chains of rocks or coral at or near the surface of water constructed by man .
aragonite structures produced by living organisms ,  found in shallow ,  marine waters with little nutrients in the water .
an alkaline flat ,  in the context of a marine environment .
a section of a river or stream that diverts from the main course and rejoins later .
the upper part of a river system ,  denoting the upper basin and source streams of a river .
an area of grassland or pasture beside a river ,  subject to seasonal flooding .
a depression which is semicircular or crescent - shaped ,  found towards the crest of a mountain ,  and formed by the erosional processes caused by the motion of a glacier .
a small ,  isolated ,  fertile or green area in a desert region ,  usually having a spring or well .
an artificial working of peatland to remove the peat .
a road or railway elevated by a bank ,  usually across a broad body of water or wetland .
a lake formed of a natural deposit of alphalt ,  a black ,  highly viscous liquid or semi - solid composed of fossil hydrocarbons .
an oceanic island ,  often having a characteristic ring - like shape surrounding a lagoon .
a linear shoaling landform feature within a body of water .
a hole in coastal rock through which sea water is forced by a rising tide or waves and spurted through an outlet into the air .
relatively narrow ,  deep depression with steep sides ,  the bottom of which generally has a continuous slope .
a hill of sand built by eolian processes .
a valley that contains ,  and has been formed by ,  a river .
a desert plain characterized by a surface veneer of sand .
a desert plain characterized by a surface veneer of rock .
narrow section of land in a body of water connecting two larger land areas .
a feature shaped by the dissolution of a soluble layer or layers of bedrock ,  usually carbonate rock such as limestone or dolomite .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical distance of a point above or below a reference surface .
an accumulation of boulders ,  stones ,  or other debris carried and deposited by a glacier .
an artificial slope or wall ,  usually earthen ,  which parallels the course of a river ,  built for the purpose of containing the river .
an elevated area of land with a flat top and sides that are usually steep cliffs .
a rounded elevated area .
the exposed summit of a ridge ,  mountain ,  or peak not covered with ice or snow within an ice field or glacier .
an elevated and comparatively level expanse of land .
a desert plain characterized by a surface veneer of gravel or stones .
a tributary valley with the floor at a higher relief than the main channel into which it flows .
rain - fed ,  potentially deep peatlands occurring principally in lowland areas across much of northern europe ,  as well as in the former ussr ,  north america and parts of the southern hemisphere .
flat or concave peatlands with a string - like pattern of hummocks  ( hence the name )  ,  found principally in northern scandinavia but occurring in the western parts of the former ussr and in north america .
peatlands with a shallow peat layer ,  only about 500 mm thick ,  dominated by sedges and grasses .
peatland typified by characteristic high mounds ,  each with a permanently frozen core ,  with wet depressions between the mounds .
forested peatlands including both rain -  and groundwater - fed types ,  commonly recorded in tropical regions with high rainfall .
feature on the ocean floor at a depth of 3500  -  6000 meters .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of solid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a wetland that forms when mud is deposited by the tides ,  rivers ,  sea or oceans .
broken rock that appears at the bottom of crags ,  mountain cliffs or valley shoulders .
a natural depression or hole in the surface topography caused by the removal of soil or bedrock ,  often both ,  by water .
a dry lakebed consisting of fine - grained sediments infused with alkali salts .
a lake from which there is no outflow of water ,  either on the surface as rivers ,  or underground by flow or diffusion through rock or permeable material .
a lake permanently covered by ice .
a lake which has layers of water which do not intermix .
a lake ,  part of whose margin is formed by an ice mass ,  ice cap or glacier ,  the ice having obstructed the natural drainage of the land .
a lake in a glacially eroded valley ,  which has been eroded below sea level .
a lake which is formed when a wide meander from a stream or a river is cut off to form a lake .
a lake which fills a depression that has formed as a result of subsidence along a a rift zone ,  an area of extensional tectonics in the continental crust .
a spring whose flow is intermittent .
a spring whose flow is continuous .
the water mass of an ocean directly above a continental shelf .
the water mass of an ocean that is not above a continental shelf .
an open ocean region .
the zone of an ocean from the surface to where photosynthesis can occur ,  due to the penetration of light .
the zone of an ocean below 200m ,  in which photosynthesis cannot occur due to the lack of light .
the one of an ocean below the 10degc thermocline down to a temperature of 4degc .
the zone of the ocean below the bathypelagic zone ,  with its lowest boundary at about 6000m .
the zone of an ocean immediately below the photic zone down to a depth where the water temperature is 10degc  ( the thermocline )  .
the zone of an ocean in oceanic trenches ,  lying between 6000m and 10 , 000m .
a fissure in the earths's surface from which geothermally heated water issues .
a hole in the earth's crust from which steam and gases are emitted .
a fumarole that emits sulfurous gases .
a hydrothermal vent found on the ocean floor .
a sea that is not connected with an ocean .
a group of geographically or geologically associated islands .
an island that lies on a continental shelf .
an island that does not sit on a continental shelf ,  and is of volcanic origin .
a slope which a )  extends the perimeter of a continent ,  b )  is covered by a shallow marine water body during interglacial periods ,  c )  has a low degree of steepness relative to a continental slope or rise .
an estuary in which river output is less than the marine input ,  resulting in the mixing of the whole water column by current - induced turbulence ,  such that salinity varies more longitudinally rather than vertically .
an estuary whose river output and marine input are more even ,  with river flow still dominant ;  turbulence induces more mixing of salt water upward than the reverse .
an estuary in which  river output greatly exceeds marine input ,  resulting in little mixing and thus a sharp contrast between fresh surface water and saline bottom water .
an estuary whose river output is less than the marine input .
an estuary which is located in regions where evaporation greatly exceeds the inflow of fresh water ,  forming a zone of maximum salinity towards which both riverine and marine water masses flow ,  before sinking and spreading along the bottom in both seaward and landward directions .
an estuary which varies dramatically in its volume as a result of intermittent freshwater input ,  and is capable of changing from a wholly marine embayment to any other type of estuary .
a wetland ecosystem which overlaps both terrestrial and marine ecosystems .
a wetland found in upland areas ,  characterised by acidic soils .
a freshwater peat land with chemically basic  ( which roughly means alkaline )  ground water .
a wetland ecosystem in which land mass is permanently inundated by shallow bodies of water ,  generally with a substantial number of hummocks ,  or dry - land protrusions .
a small ,  slow - moving stream or creek ;  usually located in low - lying areas .
a fen which has developed to the point where it supports trees .
a class of complex shallow wetlands in central ,  southern and eastern africa ,  particularly in zambia and zimbabwe .
a danbo associated with a headwater .
a dambo associated with a river .
a palustrine wetland with deep ,  acidic ,  sandy ,  peat soils .
a wetland ecosystem in which soil is saturated with saline water .
a level tract lying at a small depth below the surface of water ,  or alternately covered and left bare by the tide .
a wetland that forms when mud is deposited by a stream .
a wetland which is inundated with water that contains low concentrations of salts .
a flat or very gently sloping areas of the deep ocean basin floor .
a broad ,  low relief crater that results from a phreatic eruption or explosion caused by groundwater contact with hot lava or magma .
a crater formed by a volcano ,  within which occurs a vent  ( or vents )  from which magma erupts as gases ,  lava ,  and ejecta .
an opening ,  or rupture ,  in the earth's surface or crust ,  which allows hot ,  molten rock ,  ash and gases to escape from deep below the surface .
a valley that contains ,  or contained ,  a glacier and was formed by glacial activity .
the parallel ridges of till deposited along the sides of an alglacier .
a moriane formed when the inside lateral moraines of two glaciers merge together .
a till covered area with irregular topography and no ridges ,  often forming gently rolling hills or plains .
ridges of unconsolidated debris deposited at the snout or end of the glacier .
a plain where a stream meanders across an area with a very low gradient ,  usually with a fairly continuous discharge .
an extensive flat plain of glacial till that forms when a sheet of ice becomes detached from the main body of a glacier and melts in place depositing the sediments it carried .
an area which is subject to periodic flooding .
the stream channel and adjacent areas that carry flood flows in a flood plain .
area of a flood plane covered by the flood ,  but which does not experience a strong current .
a relatively flat and gently sloping landform found at the base of a range of hills or mountains ,  formed by the deposition of alluvial soil over a long period of time by one or more streams coming from the mountains .
a plain that originally formed in a lacustrine environment ,  that is ,  as the bed of a lake ,  but from which the water has disappeared ,  by natural drainage ,  evaporation or other geophysical processes .
an area of land of low topographic relief that historically supported grasses and herbs ,  with few trees ,  and having generally a mesic  ( moderate or temperate )  climate .
a grassland of the tropics or subtropics with scattered trees .
a plain without trees  ( apart from those near rivers and lakes )  ;  it is similar to a prairie ,  although a prairie is generally considered as being dominated by tall grasses ,  while short grasses are said to be normal in the steppe .
a narrow ,  vertical cave passage ,  often developed along a joint but not necessarily so .
a mountain rising from the ocean seafloor that does not reach to the water's surface  ( sea level )  ,  and thus is not an island .
a flat - topped seamount .
a grassland ecosystem which is used for grazing of ungulate livestock as part of a farm or ranch .
a steep - sided valley on the sea floor of the continental slope .
the ground surface that lies beneath a lake .
a continental island connected to its adjacent land by a natural feature ,  such as a causeway .
a pond that has formed as a consequence of the activities of beavers ,  building a beaver dam .
a dry  ( salt )  lake in the saharan area of africa that stays dry in the summer ,  but receive some water in the winter .
the point where a tributary joins a more major river .
a slope which 1 )  is part of the seafloor and 2 )  extends from the end of the continental shelf  ( the shelf break )  to the continental rise .
a slope which a )  bridges ,  and thus lies between ,  a continental slope and an abyssal plain ,  b )  is formed by the accumulation of sediments transported from a continental slope by processes including turbidity currents c )  has a gradient less than a continental slope yet greater than a continental shelf .
hemispheric - scale long but narrow topographic depressions of the sea floor .
an elongated whale - shaped hill formed by glacial action .
a lake that has either permanently or temporally lost its water .
a stream channel through which no water flows and which has dried ,  containing no appreciable accumulations of water .
a flat expanse of ground covered with salt and other minerals ,  usually shining white under the sun .
a slope which separates different physiogeographic provinces that are typically composed of rocks of different age and compositoin .
an escarpment resulting from a fault .
a long ,  winding ridge of stratified sand and gravel which occur in glaciated and formerly glaciated regions of europe and north america .
a long and narrow elevation with steep sides .
an open - pit mine from which rock or minerals are extracted .
a bed which is composed of quicksand forming a soft ,  shifting mass that yields easily to pressure .
an area reclaimed from the sea by diking and draining .
an isolated hill with steep sides and a small flat top ,  smaller than mesas and plateaus .
the raised fault block bounded by normal faults .
a depressed block of land bordered by parallel faults .
an extent or area of land where surface water from rain and melting snow or ice converges to a single point at lower elevation ,  usually the exit of the basin ,  where the waters join another waterbody .
the separation between neighbouring drainage basins  ( catchments )  .
a watershed such that water falling on one side of the line eventually travels to one ocean or body of water ,  and water on the other side travels to another ,  generally on the opposite side of the continent .
a facility in which fish are raised commercially in tanks or enclosures ,  usually for food .
a hatchery in which the eggs of fish are hatched under artificial conditions .
a paddy field for the cultivation of rice .
a flooded parcel of arable land used for growing rice and other semiaquatic crops .
a large mass of detached land ice in the sea or stranded in shallow water .
a field of ice ,  formed in regions of perennial frost .
area covered with low - growing or stunted perennial vegetation and usually not mixed with trees .
a shrubland area found primarily in regions with a mediterranean climate  ( mid ,  wet winters and hot dry summers )  often shaped by wildfires .
a valley created by the formation of a rift ,  i .e .
the general region of indefinite width that extends from the sea inland to the first major change in terrain features .
that part of the land in immediate contact with a body of water including the area between high and low water lines .
a body of land jutting out into and nearly surrounded by water .
a deposition landform found off coasts .
a portion of a glacier characterized by rapid flow ,  a chaotic crevassed surface ,  and a pronounced ,  at times vertical ,  slope .
a valley or trough between two dunes .
a landform sunken or depressed below the surrounding area .
a crater caused by the impact of a meteor .
a fluvioglacial landform occurring as the result of blocks of ice calving from the front of a receding glacier and becoming partially to wholly buried by glacial outwash .
the plain formed by the large amounts of silt and sediment ,  picked up as a glacier erodes the underlying rocks as it moves slowly downhill ,  and at the snout of the glacier ,  meltwater can carry this sediment away from the glacier and deposit it on a broad plain .
a sandy depression in a sand dune ecosystem  ( psammosere )  caused by the removal of sediments by wind .
a fan - shaped deposit formed where a fast flowing stream flattens ,  slows ,  and spreads typically at the exit of a canyon onto a flatter plain .
a convergence of neighboring alluvial fans into a single apron of deposits against a slope .
the area of the foreshore and seabed that is exposed to the air at low tide and submerged at high tide ,  i .e . ,  the area between tide marks .
pools formed as a high tide comes in over a rocky shore .
the tide zone that is flooded during high tide only ,  and is a highly saline environment .
the tidal zone that is mostly submerged ,  only being exposed at the point of low tide and for a longer period of time during extremely low tides .
a deep fissure in snow or ice .
a cavity developed along a joint and elongate in cross - section .
a cave formed in volcanic rock .
a cave containing a stream or active speleothems .
a cave from which a stream flows or formerly did so and which cannot be followed upstream to the surface .
a large closed depression draining underground ,  witha flat floor across which there may be an intermittent or perennial stream and which may be liable to flood and become a lake .
a cave in present - day or emerged sea cliffs ,  formed by wave attack or solution .
a secondary mineral deposit formed in caves ,  most commonly calcite .
a zone beneath the land surface and above the level of permanent groundwater or phreatic zone in which water has a hydraulic head less than atmospheric pressure and is retained by a combination of adhesion and capillary action .
a compound astronomical body part which is located beneath the land surface and in which all interstices are filled with water that has a hydraulic head greater than atmospheric pressure due to the weight of overlying groundwater .
a speleothem projecting vertically upwards from a cave floor and formed by precipitation from drips .
a speleothem hanging downwards from a roof or wall ,  of cylindrical or conical form ,  usually with a central hollow tube .
a closed depression draining underground in karst ,  of simple but variable form ,  e .g .
karst developed in soluble beds underlying other rock formations ;  the surface may or may not be affected by the karst development .
karst developed in eolian calcarenite when the development of karst features has taken place at the same time as the lithification of dune sand .
karst completely pitted by closed depressions so that divides between them form a crudely polygonal network .
karst dominated by closed depressions ,  chiefly dolines ,  perforating a simple surface .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of vomit ,  a bodily fluid consisting of the expulsed contents of the stomach of an organism disgorged through the mouth or nose .
an abiotic  mesoscopic feature made of the mineral material of the crust of the earth .
a piece of rock that is two millimeters  ( 2mm )  in its largest dimension  ( about 1 / 12 of an inch )  and no more than 75 millimeters  ( about 3 inches )  .
a comparatively elevated area on an icecap .
a mass of solid material which is primarily composed of quartz or feldspar and which is or was a member of an aggregation of similar particles .
a terrarium is a vivarium which simulates a terrestrial environment .
a volcanic caldera that has been partially filled by a new central cone .
a chain of volcanic islands or mountains formed by plate tectonics as an oceanic tectonic plate subducts under another tectonic plate and produces magma .
a volcanic arc formed by the subduction of oceanic crust below continental crust .
a volcanic arc formed by the subduction of oceanic crust other oceanic crust on an adjacent tectonic plate .
a geothermal field which is prone to localized volcanic activity .
a volcanic field of small ,  scattered volcanic vents .
a cone made of material ejected from a volcano .
a device for raising and lowering boats between stretches of water of different levels on river and canal waterways .
an area of land or of a body of water in which management practices ,   through legal or other effective means ,  prioritise the protection and maintenance of biological diversity ,  and of natural and associated cultural resources .
a natural environment which 1 )  may contain one or more geological formations or biological entities 2 )  has been designated by a competent authority as having outstanding or unique value because of its  rarity ,  aesthetic qualities ,  or cultural significance .
a protected forest or woodland area in the united states .
a conservation designation denoting a protected area in the united kingdom .
a protected area of the sea usually established to preserve a specific habitat and ensure the ecosystem is sustained for the organisms that exist there .
a protected area of importance for wildlife ,  flora ,  fauna or features of geological or other special interest ,  which is reserved and managed for conservation and to provide special opportunities for study or research .
a designation for certain protected areas of the united states managed by the united states fish and wildlife service .
a wetland protected by the terms of the ramsar convention  ( the convention on wetlands of international importance ,  especially as waterfowl habitat )  .
an area of protected biodiversity which is of national significance for biological or earth science interest .
an iucn protected area which 1 )  primarily consists of ecosystems which are able to maintain their natural composition ,  structure ,  and function at a regional scale and which are deemed to be representative of a region's natural bio -  and geodiversity ,  2 )  is sufficiently large to allow its constituent ecosystems to function ,  develop ,  and recover from natural perturbations without human intervention ,  and 3 )  is managed to preserve natural ecosystem integrity and functioning at a regional scale ,  while allowing human access for the purposes of conservation ,  cultural and spiritural activities ,  research ,  education ,  tourism ,  subsistence use by indigenous communities ,  and recreation .
an island ,  usually the consequence of the activity of a submarine volcano ,  that only exists for a short period or short periods of time after its formation ,  then being eroded or otherwise disappearing beneath the surface of a body of water .
merged definition: \ ntarget definition: a large area of brine on the ocean basin near cold seep vents which release methane into the water .
a distinctive ,  flat - topped ,  steep - sided volcano formed when lava erupts through a thick glacier or ice sheet .
a volcano with more than one feature .
a shield volcano that is formed mostly of pyroclastic and highly explosive eruptions rather than relatively fluid basaltic lava issuing from vents or fissures on the surface of the volcano .
an area where wells can be drilled to obtain elements contained in solution in hot brines or to tap heat energy .
a protected area with the purpose of protecting and managing wild life .
a protected area that is a specific site  ( such as a forest ,  mountain ,  lake ,  desert ,  monument ,  building ,  complex ,  or city )  that has been nominated and confirmed for inclusion on the list maintained by the international world heritage programme administered by the unesco world heritage committee .
an international conservation designation given by unesco under its programme on man and the biosphere  ( mab )  .
a lake purposefully constructed .
a reservoir constructed for the purpose of maintaining water levels in a canal or canals .
the disposition of an environmental system to be covered by liquid water .
an ice mass which 1 )  is attached to the coast 2 )  at least 2 meters in thickness 3 )  forms where a glacier or ice mass flows down to a coastline and onto the ocean surface and 4 )  grows by annual snow accumulation or by the seaward extension of land glaciers .
a section of the earths's crust that is demarcated by faults or flexures .
that part of the land in immediate contact with a lake .
the channel bottom of a stream ;  the physical confine of the normal water flow .
the channel bottom of a river ;  the physical confine of the normal water flow .
the place where a stream discharges into a lagoon ,  lake ,  or the sea .
the end of a stream where it enters a standing water body such as a lake ,  sea or ocean .
a depression which intermittently contains a lake .
a watercourse whose flow is not continuous .
a wetland ecosystem which is sometimes inundated or saturated by surface or ground water sufficient to support ,  and that under normal circumstances do support ,  a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions .
a spur which is part of a mountain .
an isthmus or other land connection between what at other times are separate land masses which allows animals and plants to cross and colonise new lands .
a long and narrow sheet of ice projecting out from the coastline .
a large sea or ocean inlet larger than a bay ,  deeper than a bight ,  wider than a fjord ,  or it may identify a narrow sea or ocean channel between two bodies of land .
a narrow channel of water that connects two larger bodies of water ,  and thus lies between two land masses .
the physical confine of a river ,  slough or ocean strait consisting of a bed and banks .
built by fragments  ( called ejecta )  thrown up  ( ejected )  from a volcanic vent ,  piling up around the vent in the shape of a cone with a central crater .
a cone that is composed of particles of silt to sand size .
a cone built almost entirely of loose volcanic fragments called cinders  ( pumice ,  pyroclastics ,  or tephra )  .
a volcanic cone formed of molten lava ejected from a vent somewhat like taffy .
a volcano created by geologically excreted liquids and gases ,  although there are several different processes which may cause such activity .
a large volcano with shallowly - sloping sides .
a tall ,  conical volcano composed of many layers of hardened lava ,  tephra ,  and volcanic ash .
an underwater fissures in the earth's surface from which magma can erupt .
an underwater mountain range ,  formed by plate tectonics .
a volcano produced by subglacial eruptions or eruptions beneath the surface of a lake melted into a glacier or ice mass by the rising lava .
a linear volcanic vent through which lava erupts ,  usually without any explosive activity .
a large ,  swirling body of water produced by ocean tides .
an elevated area such as a hill ,  ridge or old lava dome inside or downslope from an area of active volcanism .
the shallow part of a stream which can be easily crossed .
a watercourse which has the intensity and direction of its flow primarily determined by the tides .
a mound of earth - covered ice found in the arctic ,  subarctic ,  and antarctica that can reach up to 70 metres in height and up to 2 kilometres in diameter .
a natural formation where a rock arch forms ,  with a natural passageway through underneath .
a beach or wave cut platform raised above the shore line by a relative fall in the sea level .
a fertile low - lying raised beach found on the some of the coastlines of ireland and scotland ,  in particular in the outer hebrides .
a submergent coastal landform that forms where sea levels rise relative to the land either as a result of eustatic sea level change ;  where the global sea levels rise or isostatic sea level change ;  where the land sinks .
a geological landform consisting of a steep and often vertical column or columns of rock in the sea near a coast .
a deposition landform such as a spit or bar which forms a narrow piece of land between an island or offshore rock and a mainland shore ,  or between two islands or offshore rocks .
the narrow flat area often seen at the base of a sea cliff caused by the action of the waves .
a natural karst landform consisting of a flat ,  incised surface of exposed limestone that resembles artificial pavement .
an island that lies in a river .
an island that lies in a lake .
the solid surface that underlies an ocean .
a bend in a stream .
a biome is an ecosystem to which resident ecological communities have evolved adaptations .
a thin ,  almost knife - like ,  ridge of rock which is typically formed when two glaciers erode parallel u - shaped valleys .
a feature of a glacier ,  in which dirt ,  which has fallen into a hollow in the ice ,  forms a coating which insulates the ice below .
a cluster of dozens to hundreds of similarly shaped ,  sized and oriented drumlins .
an isolated hill ,  knob ,  ridge ,  or small mountain that rises abruptly from a gently sloping or virtually level surrounding plain .
a terrace associated with a kame .
a fan - shaped body of sediments deposited by braided streams from a melting glacier .
a lake formed either by the damming action of a moraine or ice dam during the retreat of a melting glacier ,  or one formed by meltwater trapped against an ice mass due to isostatic depression of the crust around the ice .
a deep but narrow valley with a 'u' shaped cross - section and frequently a 'u' shaped plan which is usually found filled with glacial till .
a small tunnel valley .
a steep - sided depression formed by the melting of permafrost ;  it may contain a lake .
a small wooded valley ,  either u -  or v - shaped .
a shallow cave - like opening at the base of a bluff or cliff .
a ridge on a hillside formed when saturated soil particles expand ,  then contract as they dry ,  causing them to move slowly downhill .
a very powerful whirlpool .
a reservoir constructed for the purpose of containing a flood ,  an overflow of water from a body of water that sumerges land .
a tract of land which has few or no trees and is surrounded by more heavily wooded areas .
an aquaduct to transport water from one river basin to another one ,  to solve problems of hydrographic imbalance .
a biome which is  primarily or completely situated on a landmass .
an aquatic biome which is determined by a marine water body .
a reservoir constructed for the purpose of generating electricity .
a reservoir constructed for the purpose of providing drinking water .
a reservoir constructed for the purpose of providing water for irrigation .
a lake constructed ,  or modified ,  for the chief purpose of providing an amenity .
a lake that is long ,  narrow ,  and finger - shaped ,  usually found in a glacial trough .
a lake or estuary that is formed at the mouth of a river where flow is blocked by a bar of sediments .
a container of an intermittent lake unique to the limestone areas of ireland ,  mostly west of the river shannon .
a mountain lake that is formed in a cirque excavated by a glacier .
a glacier which terminates in a lake or the sea ,  with terminus either floating or grounded
a glacier on a plateau or high area ,  smaller than an ice sheet .
a glacier which 1 )  flows for all or most of its length within the walls of a valley ,  in consequence having a distinct tongue and a well - defined outline and 2 )  descends from either high mountains ,  from an ice cap on a plateau ,  or from an ice sheet .
a glacier fed by an ice sheet .
a region of low topographic relief as a consequence of erosion by streams .
a volcanic landform which resembles a true volcanic crater ,  but differs in that it is not an actual vent from which lava has erupted .
a volcanic field of scattered volcanic vents .
a place where ships may shelter from the weather or are stored .
a harbor constructed by human agency .
a harbor which is formed by a natural landform where a part of a body of water is protected and deep enough to furnish anchorage .
an area of land on which a college or university and related institutional buildings are situated .
a dam constructed for the purpose of generating electricity from the water stored behind it .
a facility ,  permanent or temporary ,  on land ,  in air ,  space or water ,  where scientific research or measurements can be undertaken .
a dam constructed for the purpose of holding water in a reservoir for irrigation .
a dam constructed for the purpose of controlling flooding .
an area of calm water unaffected by the current of a stream .
a quarry from which gravel is extracted .
an excavation of the earth's surface to provide passage for a road ,  railway ,  canal ,  etc .
an opening of the sea into the land ,  or of a lake into its shore .
an opening of a lake into its shore .
a mountain or a hill .
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the summit of a mount .
a tall ,  slender ,  spire - shaped rock projecting from a level or more gently sloping surface .
the ground surface that lies beneath a sea .
a hollow eroded by the force of the falling water at the base of a waterfall ,  particularly by the eddying effect .
any enclosed water area in pack ice other than a lead ,  not large enough to be called open water .
that part of the land in immediate contact with a sea ,  including the intertidal zone .
the line of contact between a body of water and the land .
one of a series of glacial lakes connected by a single stream or a braided stream system .
a lake which is primarily composed of glacial meltwater and which fills a depression formed as a result of a glacial erosion process .
a frost heave which is formed as the result of a perennial ice lens forming under soil ,  pushing a roughly oval portion land surface upwards .
a stream whose course is a direct consequence of the original slope of the surface upon which it developed ,  i .e . ,  a stream that follows the slope of the original land .
a stream whose course has been determined by selective headward erosion along weak strata .
a stream whose course follows the original relief ,  but at a lower level than the original slope  ( e .g . ,  flows down a course determined by the underlying strata in the same direction )  .
a stream flowing in the opposite direction of the consequent drainage .
a stream that has an almost random drainage often forming dendritic patterns .
a stream or river which flows into another river  ( a parent river )  or body of water but which may not flow directly into the sea .
a narrow and shallow incision into soil resulting from erosion by overland flow that has been focused into a thin thread by soil surface roughness .
an incised meander on a river .
an intrusive igneous body .its thickness is usually much smaller than its other two dimensions .
a linear structural depression that extends laterally over a distance ,  while being less steep than a trench .
an obstruction in a stream constructed by a beaver .
the portion of the ground surface which lies below water .
a depression that is periodically filled with saline water ,  forming a saline lake .
a depression which is continous with one or more abandoned meander loops of a river channel .
a container of an intermittent water body which ,  when filled with water ,  has a well - illuminated surface layer ,  is subject to complete mixing of the water it holds ,  and is smaller than the container of a lake .
a gently inclined underground tunnel bringing water for irrigation from an aquifer .
a reservoir that is not permanently filled with water ,  at times being dry .
the lower terminus of a wadi where it widens into an adjoining floodplain ,  depression ,  or water body .
a step - like feature between higher and lower ground: a relatively flat or gently inclined shelf of earth ,  backed and fronted by steep slopes or manmade detaining walls .
a peatland whose development is mostly independent of basins or topographical features where water collects ;  it simply covers the landscape like a blanket .
the ground surface that lies beneath a pond .
the ground surface that lies beneath a reservoir .
a generally circular saucer or bowl - shaped depression caused by explosive action .
a cut to provide passage for a road .
a patch of ground ,  distinct from and slightly above the surrounding plain or wetland .
a surface stream that disappears into an underground channel ,  or dries up in an arid area .
the exit or point of discharge of a ditch .
a mound of earth material ,  at the base of a slope and the associated scoured area .
an irregular mass of fallen rock at the base of a cliff or steep slope .
a tunnel through which a canal passes .
a channel formed as a result of a stream cutting through a meander neck .
a former stream or distributary no longer carrying flowing water ,  but still evident due to lakes ,  wetland ,  topographic or vegetation patterns .
a stream that has been substantially ditched ,  diked ,  or straightened .
a deep narrow slot ,  notch ,  or groove in a cliff .
a relatively undissected upland between adjacent stream valleys .
a linear elevation on an icecap .
a ridge of sand just inland and parallel to the beach ,  usually in series .
a gentle slope ,  with a generally smooth surface ,  particularly found around groups of islands and seamounts .
a depression which is part of an ice cap .
a site at which refuse is dumped ,  normally filling a natural or artificial depression .
a low obstruction built across the path of s stream to raise its level .
an annular depression that may not be continuous ,  located at the base of many seamounts ,  islands ,  and other isolated elevations .
a high altitude or high latitude bare ,  flat area covered with large angular rocks .
an undersea area of subdued corrugations .
a tabular sheet intrusion that has intruded between older layers of sedimentary rock ,  beds of volcanic lava or tuff ,  or along the direction of foliation in metamorphic rock .
a lake which is primarily composed of brackish water ,  having a higher salinity than fresh water but a lower salinity than marine water .
an irregularly shaped hill or mound composed of sorted or stratified sand and gravel that is deposited in contact with the glacial ice .
a depression which comprises a low tract of land ,  especially when moist or marshy .
a man - made watercourse ,  or makeshift aqueduct ,  often an artificial channel which supplies water to a watermill or its mill pond ,  collecting water from upstream of the mill so that the natural level of the driving water is above the level of the stream at the mill .
a beach which is armoured with pebbles or small to medium sized cobbles .
lake sediment is sediment which covers the bottom of a lake .
a pond ,  often temporary or seasonal ,  used as a drinking place by mammals and birds .
a depression which is is periodically filled with water when water supply exceeds evapotranspiration and bed seepage .
a drainage basin from which there is no outflow of water ,  either on the surface as rivers ,  or underground by flow or diffusion through rock or permeable material .
an area of unfrozen ground surrounded by permafrost .
a dam constructed for more than one purpose .
an auxiliary dam constructed to confine the reservoir created by a primary dam either to permit a higher water elevation and storage or to limit the extent of a reservoir for increased efficiency .
a dam designed to reduce flow velocity and control soil erosion .
a dam that only partly restricts a waterway ,  creating a faster channel that resists the accumulation of sediment .
a dam designed to control flooding .
a dam designed to divert all or a portion of the flow of a river from its natural course .
a region at which weapons ,  typically military ,  are tested .
a weapons test site at which nuclear weapons are ,  or have been ,  tested .
a region in which military personnel train .
a bounded area of land ,  or water ,  usually in its natural or semi - natural  ( landscaped )  state and set aside for some purpose ,  usually to do with recreation or conservation .
a raised walkway over water ,  supported by piles or pillars .
a place  ( or group of physical sites )  in which evidence of past activity is preserved  ( either prehistoric or historic or contemporary )  ,  and which is ,  has been ,  or may be ,  investigated using the discipline of archaeology .
a building or region where sports activities can be carried out .
a sports facility constructed for skiing and allied sports that require snow and / or ice .
a deep valley with steep sides ,  typically of limestone ,  in part submerged by the sea .
a habitat that is solely in the air .
a habitat that is in or on a sea or ocean containing high concentrations of dissolved salts and other total dissolved solids  ( typically  > 35 grams dissolved salts per litre )  .
a habitat that is in or on a body of water  ( as in estuaries )  containing medium concentrations of dissolved salts and other total dissolved solids  ( typically 0 .5 to 35 grams dissolved salts per litre )  .
a habitat in or on trees .
a habitat that is below the surface of the earth .
incorporated populated place .
an aquatic biome which is determined by a body of freshwater .
a habitat consisting of the spaces within rocks ,  such as pores between aggregate grains .
a biome which has little permanent surface water and a low relative abundance of springs .
a rock is a naturally occurring solid aggregate of one or more minerals or mineraloids .
the outflow of water from a mine .
a mine drainage with an acidic ph .
soil is an environmental material which is primarily composed of minerals ,  varying proportions of sand ,  silt ,  and clay ,  organic material such as humus ,  gases ,  liquids ,  and a broad range of resident micro -  and macroorganisms .
a significant accumulation of water which is part of a marine biome .
a solid astronomical body part which is part of the planetary surface between the peak of an elevation or the bottom of a depression and  relatively flat surrounding land .
water that has been adversely affected in quality by anthropogenic influence .
an excreta material which is composed primarily of feces ,  an excreta consisting of waste products expelled from an animal's digestive tract through the anus  ( or cloaca )  during defecation .
an object which is large enough to be visible to humans ,  but small enough that humans can handle the object  ( i .e .
the mixture of gases  ( roughly  ( by molar content / volume: 78% nitrogen ,  20 .95% oxygen ,  0 .93% argon ,  0 .038% carbon dioxide ,  trace amounts of other gases ,  and a variable amount  ( average around 1% )  of water vapor )  that surrounds the planet earth .
an environmental material primarily composed of dihydrogen oxide in its liquid form .
sediment is an environmental substance comprised of any particulate matter that can be transported by fluid flow and which eventually is deposited as a layer of solid particles on the bedor bottom of a body of water or other liquid .
minute solid particles with diameters less than 500 micrometers .
a habitat that is on or at the boundary of the surface of the earth .
water which contains a significant concentration of dissolved salts .
water which has a low concentration of dissolved solutes ,  particularly that of sodium chloride .
water which contains a highly increased concentration of dissolved salts ,  surpassing the average salinity of seawater .
rock formed from molten magma .
an igneous rock that results from the crystallization of a magma below the surface of the earth .
an igneous rock that results from magma reaching the surface either as lava or fragmental ejecta .
a rock formed by deposition of either clastic sediments ,  organic matter ,  or chemical precipitates  ( evaporites )  ,  followed by compaction of the particulate matter and cementation during diagenesis .
a rock formed by subjecting any rock type  ( including previously - formed metamorphic rock )  to different temperature and pressure conditions than those in which the original rock was formed .
wastewater that is contaminated with feces or urine , 
water which has a higher salinity than fresh water but a lower salinity than marine water .
a habitat having at least one environmental quality that tends towards either the largest or smallest element of the set .
a habitat in which the ph is  < ph3 .
a habitat in which the ph is  > ph9 .
a habitat characterized by high gas or liquid pressure ,  inhabited by barophilic  ( piezophilic )  organisms .
a habitat characterized by a concentration of salt at least 2m .
a habitat characterized by an average temperature of at least 60deg c . inhabited by thermophilic organisms .
a habitat characterized by an average temperature of 15deg c or lower .
a habitat characterized by an average temperature of at least 80deg c . inhabited by hyperthermophilic organisms .
a habitat characterized by a high osmolarity ,  typically the result of a high concentration of sugars .
a biome which is determined by a water body and which has ecological climax communities adapted to life in or on water .
a habitat that is in or on an environmental feature or material derived from human activity .
a habitat that is in or on a living thing .
the dead body of an animal .
a complex aggregation of microorganisms marked by the excretion of a protective and adhesive matrix ;  usually adhering to a substratum .
a natural object originating in outer space that survives an impact with a planetary surface without being destroyed .
a spatial region having environmental qualities which may sustain an organism or a community of organisms .
a habitat that is in or on a body of water containing low concentrations of dissolved salts and other total dissolved solids  (  < 0 .5 grams dissolved salts per litre )  .
the rigid organs that form part of the endoskeleton of vertebrates .
water that is found on the surface of an astronomical object .
the residual semi - solid material left from domestic or industrial processes ,  or wastewater treatment processes .
sediment characterised by the absence of oxygen .
an excreta material which is composed primarily of urine ,  a liquid excreta containing water and waste products made by the kidneys ,  stored in the bladder ,  and leaves the body through the urethra .
a stony meteorite that have not been modified due to melting or differentiation of the parent body .
a stony meteorite that is made of material similar to terrestrial basalts or plutonic rocks .
a meteorite that consists of a mixture of iron - nickel metal and silicate minerals .
a meteorite that overwhelmingly of nickel - iron alloys .
a sedimentary rock composed largely of the mineral calcite .
a soft ,  white ,  porous limestone .
a sedimentary rock composed mainly of sand - size mineral or rock grains .
a fine - grained sedimentary rock whose original constituents were clays or muds .
a treated form of sludge ,  sometimes used as a fertilizer in agriculture .
a solid or gel in motor oil caused by the oil gelling or solidifying ,  usually at temperatures lower than 100deg c .
the result of the unintentional release of liquid petroleum hydrocarbon into the environment as a result of human activity .
obsolete .
the result of the release of natural hydrocarbons to the surface of the earth ,  including beneath the sea ,  by natural geological processes .
sediment that accumulates in the flat or very gently sloping areas of the deep ocean basin floor .
sediment which has increased levels of one or more chemical compounds .
organically enriched sediment which has increased levels of petroleum .
a portion of contaminated soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of some contaminant .
soil which has elevated concentrations of creosote .
a hot spring whose water has an alkaline ph .
a hot spring whose water has an acidic ph .
mud which has elevated concentrations of arsenic .
a biomaterial containment unit which is capable of 1 )  containing a mass of environmental material which hosts an active collection of organisms and 2 )  maintaining conditions which are conducive to one or more metabolic activities of the organisms it contains .
a bioreactor in which the contained material is not oxygenated  ( i .e .
a device or system that supports a biologically active environment .
a bioreactor in which the contained material is well - oxygenated .
the dense ,  bottom layer of water in a thermally - stratified lake .
the top - most layer in a thermally stratified lake ,  occurring above the deeper hypolimnion .
a cline which is part of a lake and across which temperature changes rapidly with depth .
mud which has no or neglible concentrations of dissolved oxygen .
an estuary which is composed primarily of brackish water .
a clastic rock with a particle size of 4 to 64 millimeters based on the krumbein phi scale of sedimentology .
a rock or rock fragment with a particle size between 64 and 256 mm .
the liquid produced when water percolates through any permeable material .
a solid surface layer which 1 )   forms part of the boundary between the cavity of a cave and its solid container and 2 )  is roughtly perpendicular to the cave floor .
soil which has elevated concentrations of chromate .
soil which has elevated concentrations of xylene .
coal mine lake sediment is lake sediment which covers the bottom of a coal mine lake .
water which has physicochemical properties that have been determined by the processes occuring in a sea or ocean .
coastal sea water is sea water that is adjacent to a coast .
a bioreactor which captures and ,  through the biological processes maintained in the medium it contains ,  degrades pollutants .
a highly contaminated site designated by the united states of america's comprehensive environmental response ,  compensation ,  and liability act .
mud which is part of an estuary .
a solid environmental material which is formed by the replacement of organic substances  ( including those in soils and sediments )  with mineral material .
the aerobically decomposed remnants of organic materials .
a hospital is a building in which health care services are  provided by specialized staff and equipment .
a zone within a portion of petroleum contaminated sediment within which iron - reducing processes occur .
organically enriched sediment which has increased levels of naphthalene .
a hot spring whose water has a neutral ph .
organically enriched sediment which has increased levels of nitrobenzene .
a manufactured container within which oil or other petrochemical products are stored and which these products are usually transported to end users or further storage facilities .
straw or other material strewn in an animal's enclosure  ( e .g .
an aquarium is a vivarium which simulates the submerged portions of an aquatic environment
a saline water aquarium is an aquarium which contains saline water as its primary ecological medium .
a fresh water aquarium is an aquarium which contains fresh water as its primary ecological medium .
water ice which has formed by the freezing of sea water .
organically enriched sediment which has increased levels of cis - dichloroethane .
chemically - enriched sediment which has increased levels of organic compounds .
chemically - enriched sediment which has increased levels of inorganic compounds .
a dump which contains ammunition ,  or other material intended for use during combat ,  that still has the potential to explode .
saline lake sediment is sediment which covers the bottom of a saline lake .
a power plant is a building which contains one or more generators which convert mechanical energy into electrical energy through the relative motion between a magnetic field and a conductor .
a geothermal power plant is a power plant which uses heat generated by the decay of radioactive isotopes in the earth's mantle and crust as well as primordial heat left over from the formation of the earth to drive its generators .
a building in which a business presents a selection of goods and offers to trade or sell them to customers for money or other goods .
a shop in which a business offers food products for sale or trade .
water with a very low nutrient level .
water with a high nutrient level .
water with a nutrient level intermediate between eutrophic and oligotrophic .
a channel which is constructed by removing materials from land or submerged beds .
a habitat that is in or on a body of water containing medium to high concentrations of dissolved salts and other total dissolved solids  (  > =0 .5 grams dissolved salts per litre )  .
arenosols are sandy soils ,  including both soils developed in residual sands after in situ weathering of usually quartz - rich sediments or rock ,  and soils developed in recently deposited sands such as dunes in deserts and beach lands .
anthrosols comprise soils that have been modified profoundly through human activities ,  such as addition of organic materials or household wastes ,  irrigation and cultivation .
alisols are soils that have a higher clay content in the subsoil than in the topsoil as a result of pedogenetic processes  ( especially clay migration )  leading to an argic subsoil horizon .
andosols are soils that develop in volcanic ejecta or glasses under almost any climate  ( except under hyperarid climate conditions )  .
albeluvisols are soils that have ,  beginning within 1 m of the soil surface ,  a clay illuviation horizon with an irregular or broken upper boundary resulting in tonguing of bleached soil material into the illuviation horizon .
acrisols are soils that have a higher clay content in the subsoil than in the topsoil as a result of pedogenetic processes  ( especially clay migration )  leading to an argic subsoil horizon .
cambisols combine soils with at least an incipient subsurface soil formation .
cryosols comprise mineral soils formed in a permafrost environment .
chernozems are soils with a thick black surface layer that is rich in organic matter .
durisols are associated mainly with old surfaces in arid and semi - arid environments and accommodate very shallow to moderately deep ,  moderately well -  to well - drained soils that contain cemented secondary silica  ( sio2 )  within 100 cm of the soil surface .
calcisols are soils in which there is substantial secondary accumulation of lime .
kastanozems are dry grassland soils ,  among them the zonal soils of the short - grass steppe belt ,  south of the eurasian tall - grass steppe belt with chernozems .
leptosols are very shallow soils over continuous rock and soils that are extremely gravelly and / or stony .
lixisols are soils that have a higher clay content in the subsoil than in the topsoil as a result of pedogenetic processes  ( especially clay migration )  leading to an argic subsoil horizon .
histosols comprise soils formed in organic material .
gleysols are wetland soils that ,  unless drained ,  are saturated with groundwater for long enough periods to develop a characteristic gleyic colour pattern .
gypsisols are soils with substantial secondary accumulation of gypsum  ( calcium sulfate )  .
ferralsols represent the classical ,  deeply weathered ,  red or yellow soils of the humid tropics .
nitisols are deep ,  well - drained ,  red ,  tropical soils with diffuse horizon boundaries and a subsurface horizon with more than 30 percent clay and moderate to strong angular blocky structure elements that easily fall apart into characteristic shiny ,  polyhedric  ( nutty )  elements .
luvisols are soils that have a higher clay content in the subsoil than in the topsoil as a result of pedogenetic processes  ( especially clay migration )  leading to an argic subsoil horizon .
phaeozems accommodate soils of relatively wet grassland and forest regions in moderately continental climates .
plinthosols are soils with plinthite ,  petroplinthite or pisoliths .
planosols are soils with a light - coloured ,  surface horizon that shows signs of periodic water stagnation and abruptly overlies a dense ,  slowly permeable subsoil with significantly more clay than the surface horizon .
solonchaks are soils that have a high concentration of soluble salts at some time in the year .
umbrisols are soils in which organic matter has accumulated within the mineral surface soil  ( in most cases with low base saturation )  to the extent that it significantly affects the behaviour and utilization of the soil .
a soil in which there is a high content of expansive clay known as montmorillonite that forms deep cracks in drier seasons or years .
solonetz are soils with a dense ,  strongly structured ,  clayey subsurface horizon that has a high proportion of adsorbed na and / or mg ions .
regosols form a taxonomic remnant group containing all soils that could not be accommodated in any of the other rsgs .
podzols are soils with a typically ash - grey upper subsurface horizon ,  bleached by loss of organic matter and iron oxides ,  on top of a dark accumulation horizon with brown ,  reddish or black illuviated humus and / or reddish fe compounds .
a soil composed of sand ,  silt ,  and clay in relatively even concentration  ( about 40 - 40 - 20% concentration respectively )  .
a portion of soil which is found in a forested area .
a portion of soil which is found in a garden .
a material which is not the desired output of a process and which is typically the input of a process which removes it from its producer  ( e .g .
wastewater produced in the course of agricultural activities
industrial wastes are liquid ,  solid and gaseous wastes originating from the manufacture of specific products .
a peatland dominated by species of the bryophyte sphagnum .
a cline across which temperature changes rapidly .
a cline across which the chemical composition of a fluid changes rapidly .
a nuclear power plant is a power plant which uses heat generated by a radioactive decay in a nuclear reactor to convert water into steam in order to drive turbines in electrical generators through pressure .
fluvisols accommodate genetically young ,  azonal soils in alluvial deposits .
stagnosols are soils with a perched water table showing redoximorphic features caused by surface water .
technosols are soils whose properties and pedogenesis are dominated by their technical origin .
a depression in the sea floor that results from the collision of continental plates ;  the weight of the sinking plate causes the overlying plate to stretch and thin ,  causing a basin in the overlying plate .
obsolete a material entity which determines an environmental system .
a structural basin that is below sea level .
hay is grass ,  legumes or other herbaceous plants that have been cut ,  dried ,  and stored for use as animal fodder ,  particularly for grazing livestock such as cattle ,  horses ,  goats ,  and sheep .
a natural building material mode from sand ,  clay ,  water ,  and some kind of fibrous or organic material  ( sticks ,  straw ,  and / or manure )  .
soil which has been eroded and influenced by flowing water and redeposited in a non - marine setting .
the biomass remaining after sugarcane stalks are crushed to extract their juice .
soil which has elevated concentrations of oil .
a group of hydrous aluminium phyllosilicate  ( phyllosilicates being a subgroup of silicate minerals )  minerals  ( see clay minerals )  ,  that are typically less than 2 micrometres in diameter .
an oil which 1 )  is liquid at room temperature  ( approximately 20 degrees celsius )  2 )  is intended to be burned in a furnace or boiler for the generation of heat or used in an engine for the generation of power ,  3 )  is obtained from petroleum distillation ,  either as a distillate or a residue ,  4 )  composed of long hydrocarbon chains ,  particularly alkanes ,  cycloalkanes and aromatics .
a naturally occurring flammable liquid consisting of a complex mixture of hydrocarbons of various molecular weights and other liquid organic compounds ,  that are found in geologic formations beneath the planetary surfaces .
a nonpolar ,  hydrophobic ,  and lipophilic material which is a viscous liquid at ambient temperatures  ( about 20 degrees celsius )  or slightly warmer .
a fermented ,  high - moisture forage that can be fed to ruminants .
a compost which generally consists of a combination of wheat straw ,  dried blood ,  horse manure and ground chalk ,  composted together and is the residual compost waste generated by industrial mushroom production .
a house used for sheltering non - human animals .
an animal house which is used to shelter cows .
an animal house which is used to house pigs .
water saturated or nearly saturated with salt  ( nacl )  .
drinking water is water which may be consumed by humans with no adverse effects on their health .
a material entity that has been processed by humans or their technology in any way ,  including intermediate products as well as final products .
glue is any substance applied to the surfaces of materials that binds them together and resists separation .
soil which has elevated concentrations of metals .
a portion of enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of some material entity .
a portion of sarcosine enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of sarcosine .
a portion of trimethylamine enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of trimethylamine .
a portion of skatole enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of skatole .
a portion of ethanol enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of ethanol .
a portion of acetamide enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of acetamide .
a portion of pantothenate enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of pantothenate .
a portion of testosterone enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of testosterone .
a portion of kynurenate enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of kynurenate .
a portion of threonine enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of threonine .
a portion of salicylate enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of salicylate .
a portion of poly - beta - hydroxybutyrate enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of poly - beta - hydroxybutyrate .
a portion of l -  (  +  )  - tartrate enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of l -  (  +  )  - tartrate .
a portion of quinate enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of quinate .
a tannery is a building in which the skins of animals are treated with chemicals to alter the structure of their constituent proteins ,  creating leather .
manure which is primarily composed of pig feces .
an industrial building is a building within which goods are produced and ,  optionally ,  stored or within which services are rendered .
a dairy is a building in which animal milk is harvested and ,  optionally ,  processed for human consumption .
a food processing building is a building in which materials that contain or consist of essential body nutrients  -  such as carbohydrates ,  fats ,  proteins ,  vitamins ,  or minerals  -  and may be ingested and assimilated by an organism to produce energy ,  stimulate growth ,  and maintain life are converted alternative forms .
a bakery is a building in which raw flour - based food is baked in an oven to produce food products such as bread ,  cakes ,  pastries ,  and pies .
an agricultural byproduct ,  the dry stalk of a cereal plant ,  after the nutrient grain or seed has been removed .
a brewery is a building in which alcoholic beverages are produced by brewing ,  that is ,  steeping a starch source  ( commonly cereal grains )  in water and fermenting the resulting sweet liquid with yeast .
a sake brewery is a brewery which produces rice wine by fermenting rice which has been polished to remove the bran .
a building or collection of co - located buildings constructed for the purpose of undertaking scientific research .
a layer of impurities that accumulates at the surface of a liquid  ( especially water or molten metal )  .
a warehouse is a building which is used for the storage of goods .
a tobacco warehouse is a warehouse used to store cured leaves of plants from the genus nicotiana ,  primarily  n . tabacum and n . rustica .
a creamery is a part of a dairy where cream is separated from whole milk .
an air filter is a device that removes some substance from air .
a natural chemical precipitate of carbonate minerals ;  typically aragonite ,  but often recrystallized to or primarily calcite ;  which is deposited from the water of mineral springs  ( especially hot springs )  or streams saturated with calcium carbonate .
a building within which logs are cut into lumber products .
a large flat plain in karst territory with areas usually 5 to 400 sqaure kilometres .
a portion of soil which is found in a roadside area .
soil which is part of an allotment garden .
a portion of soil which is found in a savanna .
soil which has little to no water content and in which minerals and other soluble chemical entities have either bonded or become adsorbed to sold particles due to insufficient water availability .
a portion of soil which is part of a cropland or a rangeland biome .
a portion of soil which is found in a grassland .
soil which is part of a densely forested area subject to tropical climate patterns .
a portion of urea enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of urea .
a portion of bacteria enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated bacterial abundance .
a portion of alluvial soil which is part of a swamp ecosystem .
a portion of chloropicrin enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of chloropicrin .
soil which has ,  as a part ,  a portion of either fresh or processed animal manure .
soil which has properties to which plants in the family orchidaceae have adapted ,  including increased levels of aeration and drainage .
soil which is composed of a large proportion of mud ,  thus having properties resembling mud .
soil in which trees from an orchard grow .
soil which is found in a pasture and in which vegetation ,  such as the grass used for the grazing of ungulates ,  grows .
soil which has elevated concentrations of sodium chloride .
a portion of soil which is found in a steppe .
a portion of soil which is found in a greenhouse .
soil which is formed from avian fecal matter .
bluegrass field soil is a soil which is found in a field of kentucky bluegrass  ( poa pratensis )  .
sterile water is water which does not contain lliving organisms .
water which has physicochemical properties determined by processes which occur beneath the planetary crust .
mud which is part of a marine ecosystem .
mud which constitutes the bed of a lake .
sand which is part of a desert .
the narrow region of soil that is directly influenced by root secretions and associated soil microorganisms .
soil that is not penetrated by the root systems of plants .
the dwelling of an animal or group of similar animals .
a pile of earth ,  sand ,  pine needles ,  or clay or a composite of these and other materials that build up at the entrances of the subterranean dwellings of ant colonies as they are excavated .
a bird nest is the spot in which a bird lays and incubates its eggs and raises its young .
a habitat that is in or on a living animal .
a habitat that is in or on a living plant .
a habitat that is in or on a living mammal .
a habitat that is in or on a living animal .
a habitat that is in or on a living insect .
an ice rise is an elevation which is part of an ice shelf ,  typically dome shared ,  and formed by the ice shelf overriding an obstruction in the seabed .
a glacier covering a coastal strip of low - lying land backed by mountains ,  and sloping gently seaward over a distance up to 30km or more to terminate in ice cliffs or to merge with an ice shelf .
fissure at the junction between an inland ice sheet ,  ice piedmont or ice rise and an ice shelf ,  the latter being subject to the rise and fall of the tide .
a fomite is any inanimate object or substance capable of carrying infectious organisms  ( such as germs or parasites )  and hence transferring them from one individual to another .
a dump for domestic waste .
a portion of environmental material is a fiat object part which forms the medium or part of the medium of an environmental system .
a layer of some material entity which is adjacent to one or more of its external boundaries and directly interacts with its immediate surroundings .
airborne solid particles  ( also called dust or particulate matter  ( pm )  )  or liquid droplets .
a mixture of two immiscible  ( unblendable )  substances .
a vivarium is an enclosure for keeping and raising organisms for observation or research .
a sedimentary carbonate rock and a mineral ,  both composed of calcium magnesium carbonate camg ( co3 ) 2 found in crystals .
a place where a wide variety of plants primarily categorized and documented for scientific purposes .
a facility in which animals are confined within enclosures and displayed to the public ,  and in which they may also be bred .
a research facility consisting of instruments that measure the properties of the oceans over time .
an underground layer of water - bearing permeable rock or unconsolidated materials  ( gravel ,  sand ,  silt ,  or clay )  from which groundwater can be usefully extracted using a water well .
anthropogenic material in or on which organisms may live .
a liquid  which is specifically prepared for human consumption .
organic matter in soil which has reached a point of stability ,  where it will break down no further and might ,  if conditions do not change ,  remain essentially as it is for centuries ,  or millennia .
a liquid or semi - liquid mixture of water and some combination of soil ,  silt ,  and clay .
a well which provides access to groundwater held  in an aquifer .
a well which has been drilled in order to extract petroleum oil from subterranean reservoirs and bring it to the surface .
the concentration basin mediterranean sea biome comprises expressions of the mediterranean sea biome that have higher salinity than bordering oceans due to evaporation .
merged definition: \ ntarget definition: an oceanographic feature that involves wind - driven motion of dense ,  cooler ,  and usually nutrient - rich water towards the ocean surface ,  replacing the warmer ,  usually nutrient - deplete surface water . \ n -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  \ nsource definition: a marine upwelling is a net flow of marine water to the surface of the water column from deeper regions .
an upwelling that is near a coast .
an organic object which is formed as a result of the biological processes mediated by microbial assemblages .
a multi - layered sheet of micro - organisms ,  mainly bacteria and archaea .
silt is granular material of a size somewhere between sand and clay whose mineral origin is quartz and feldspar .
a naturally occurring granular material composed of finely divided rock and mineral particles .
gravel is an environmental material which is composed of pieces of rock that are at least two millimeters  ( 2mm )  in its largest dimension and no more than 75 millimeters .
a solid surface layer which 1 )  forms part of the boundary between the cavity of a cave and its solid container and 2 )   is the closest solid boundary to the gravitational centre of the astronomical body of which the cave is a part .
expressions of the estuarine biome occur at wide lower courses of a rivers where they flow into a sea .
expressions of the mangrove biome are typically found in tropical and sub - tropical tidal areas ,  in depositional coastal environments where fine sediments  ( often with high organic content )  collect in areas protected from high energy wave action .
the marine salt marsh biome comprises marshes that are transitional intertidals between land and salty or brackish marine water  ( e .g .
the marine pelagic biome  ( pelagic meaning open sea )  is that of the marine water column ,  from the surface to the greatest depths .
the marine benthic biome  ( benthic meaning 'bottom' )  encompasses the seafloor and includes such areas as shores ,  littoral or intertidal areas ,  marine coral reefs ,  and the deep seabed .
the marine neritic zone biome comprises sea floor from the high tide mark to a continental shelf break .
the marine bathyal zone biome comprises regions of the marine benthic biome between approximately 200 m and 3000 m depth .
the marine abyssal zone biome comprises regions of the marine benthic biome  between approximately 2500 m and 6000 m depth .
the marine hadal zone biome describes sea floor deeper than 6000 m such as that of the oceanic trenches .
a biome expressed by strips or ridges of rocks ,  sand ,  or coral that rises to or near the surface of a body of marine water .
the marine hydrothermal vent biome comprises regions of the marine benthic biome where heat generated due to tectonic activity ,  either at divergent plate boundaries or convergent ocean plates where back - arc spreading occurs ,  is released or 'vented' to the surface .
a prominent or distinctive aspect ,  quality ,  or characteristic of a marine biome .
the neritic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column above a continental shelf .
the oceanic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column offshore ,  beyond a continental shelf .
the oceanic sea surface microlayer  ( sml )  biome comprises the top 1000 micrometers of the marine surface waters occurring offshore ,  away from a continental shelf .
the oceanic epipelagic zone biome comprises regions of the marine water column that occur offshore ,  beyond a continental shelf .
the oceanic mesopelagic zone biome comprises regions of the marine water column that occur offshore ,  beyond a continental shelf .
the bathypelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column below approximately 1000 m water depth  -  the maximum depth to which detectable daylight penetrates in all but the clearest oligotrophic waters  -  and extends to about 2500  -  2700 m water depth .
the abyssopelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column below the bathypelagic zone biome at approximately 2500  - 2700 m and extends either to the hadal pelagic zone biome  ( at approximately 6000 m )  or to the benthopelagic zone biome within ca .
the oceanic hadal pelagic zone biome comprises the water column in oceanic trenches occurring at depths between 6000m and 10 , 000m .
the benthopelagic zone biome comprises regions of the marine water column which usually coincide with the benthic boundary layer  ( bbl )   -  the layer of isothermal and isohaline water contiguous to the sea floor .
the neritic sea surface microlayer  ( sml )  biome comprises the top 1000 micrometers of marine surface waters occurring above a continental shelf .
the neritic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column that occurs above a continental shelf and extends from the surface of the ocean to a depth of ca .
the neritic mesopelagic zone biome comprises the marine column that occurs above a continental shelf and extends from approximately 200 to 1000 m depth  -  the maximal depth of light penetration in all but the clearest oligotrophic ocean regions .
a prominent or distinctive aspect ,  quality ,  or characteristic of environments occurring within the marine water column .
the epeiric sea  ( also known as an epicontinental sea )  biome comprises a shallow seas that extend over part of a continent .
the marginal sea biome comprises parts of an ocean partially enclosed by land such as islands ,  archipelagos ,  or peninsulas .
the mediterranean sea biome comprises mostly enclosed seas that have limited exchange of deep water with outer oceans and where the water circulation is dominated by salinity and temperature differences rather than winds .
a marine biome which is determined by an ocean .
the marine coral reef biome comprises constructional wave - resistant entities which are primarily built by corals and are often cemented together .
the marine rocky subtidal reef biome comprises regions of the marine reef biome composed mainly of rock and which harbour abundant communities of algae and invertebrates .
a marine black smoker biome comprises regions of the marine hydrothermal vent biome characterised by a black vent plume .
a marine white smoker biome comprises regions of the marine hydrothermal vent biome characterised by lightly hued plumes ,  typically containing barium ,  calcium ,  and silicon .
a marine ultramafic hydrothermal vent biome comprises regions of themarine  hydrothermal vent biome hosted on ultramafic  ( also referred to as ultrabasic )  rocks .
a marine basaltic hydrothermal vent biome comprises regions of the marine hydrothermal vent biome hosted on basaltic rocks .
a marine algal bloom is a rapid increase or accumulation in the population of algae in a marine system .
kelp forests are underwater areas with a high density of kelp .
a bed of a marine ,  saline water body which is covered by one or more speices of seagrass typically belonging to the families posidoniaceae ,  zosteraceae ,  hydrocharitaceae ,  or cymodoceaceae .
particulate material is an environmental material which is composed of microscopic portions of solid or liquid material suspended in another environmental material .
the upper part of the marine water column with generally uniform properties resulting from wind - driven mixing .
benthic storms are strong benthic  ( near bottom )  currents transporting sediment ,  created by the input of energy  ( largely kinetic )  to the seabed .
a portion of planktonic material is a portion of environmental material primarily composed of plankton .
a marine downwelling describes a net current of marine surface water towards deeper regions of the water column .
a marine water mass which is characterized by having much lower than normal dissolved oxygen concentrations persistently .
marine anoxic zones are areas of marine water that are depleted of dissolved oxygen .
a water current which is maintained by a continuous ,  directed movement of marine water ,  generated by forces caused by breaking waves ,  wind ,  coriolis force ,  temperature and salinity differences ,  and tides caused by the gravitational pull of astronomical bodies .
marine streamers are tongues of cold water that extend  >  100 km offshore from upwelling regions .
mesoscale marine eddies are characterized by currents which flow in a roughly circular motion around the center of the eddy .
sediment comprised of weathered continental rocks ,  wind blown dust ,  volcanic ash or other terrestrial material .
an oceanic front is a narrow zone of enhanced horizontal gradients of water properties  ( temperature ,  salinity ,  nutrients ,  etc . ) 
a marine taylor column is a taylor column that is formed in a marine body of water .
an expanse of marine water characterised by low concentrations of nutrients such as phosphate ,  nitrate as well as organic matter and ,  hence ,  low primary productivity .
a gyre in oceanography is any large system of rotating ocean currents ,  particularly those involved with large wind movements .
a thermocline which is part of a marine water body .
a marine chemocline is a marine cline caused by a strong ,  vertical chemistry gradient within a body of marine water .
a pycnocline which is part of a marine water body and composed primarily of sea water .
a nutricline which is part of a marine water body .
the marine lysocline denotes the depth in the ocean below which the rate of dissolution of calcite increases dramatically .
a roughly planar ,  pelagic region characterised by equal water temperature .
a roughly planar ,  pelagic region characterised by equal salinity .
biogenous sediment is derived from living organisms ,  typically planktonic organisms possessing shells ,  frustules or coccoliths .
a roughly planar ,  pelagic region characterised by equal water density .
a convergence front which is located in a region subject to subtropical climate patterns .
a marine current that generally occurs below the permanent thermocline  ( where it occurs )  or below 400 m depth and that is driven by density and temperature gradients .
a marine current bordered by the surface of the water column and the permanent thermocline ,  where it occurs .
a marine surface current that flows along an oceanic front .
a warm water ,  narrow marine surface current flowing from the equator to high latitudes at speeds between 40 and 120 kilometers per day .
a cold water ,  broad marine surface current flowing from high latitudes to the equator at speeds between 3 and 7 kilometers per day .
a prominent or distinctive aspect ,  quality ,  or characteristic of environments occurring on or along marine benthic environments .
a marine thermocline which separates the marine cold - water sphere from the marine warm - water sphere and which does not dissipate seasonally .
a marine thermocline which is present below the marine wind mixed layer .
the marine cold - water sphere describes a water mass extending from the polar seas and across low latitudes at depths of ca .
the marine warm - water sphere describes a water mass extending to depths of ca .
hydrogenous sediment is derived from solutes that precipitate out of sea water by a variety of chemical reactions .
cosmogenous sediment is derived from extraterrestrial dust and debris in the form of meteorites and similar entities .
polymetallic nodules ,  also called manganese nodules ,  are rock concretions on the sea bottom formed of concentric layers of iron and manganese hydroxides around a core .
suspended sediment ,  or suspended load ,  is the term for the particles settle  slowly enough to be carried in flowing water  ( such as a stream or coastal area )  either without touching the bed or while only intermittently touching it .
sediment characterised by an average particle diameter greater than 256 mm .
sediment characterised by an average particle diameter between 64 and 256 mm .
sediment characterised by an average particle diameter between 4 and 32 mm .
sediment characterised by an average particle diameter between 2 and 4 mm .
sediment characterised by an average particle diameter between 62 .5 micrometers and 2 mm .
sediment characterised by an average particle diameter between 3 .9 and 62 .5 micrometers .
sediment characterised by an average particle diameter between 1 and 3 .9 micrometers .
sediment characterised by an average particle diameter below 1 micrometer .
a marine hydrothermal vent is a marine benthic feature where heat generated due to tectonic activity ,  either at divergent plate boundaries or convergent ocean plates where back - arc spreading occurs ,  is released or 'vented' to the surface .
the marine sponge reef biome comprises marine reefs primarily built by marine sponges .
the supralittoral zone is the area above the spring high tide line that is regularly splashed ,  but not submerged by ocean water .
the marine littoral zone is a littoral zone which extends ,  approximately ,  from the spray region above the high tide mark to the edge of the coninental shelf .
the marine sublittoral zone is part of the marine littoral zone which is permanently covered by seawater .
a marine benthic biome which is determined by a cold seep .
the dilution basin mediterranean sea biome comprises expressions of the mediterranean sea biome with lower salinity than the surrounding ocean due to freshwater gains such as rainfall and rivers .
a column of solid material which has been progressively deposited around a hydrothermal vent .
a marine hydrothermal vent plume ,  part of a marine hydrothermal vent ,  is a high temperature water jet laden with dissolved metals and minerals that is driven by heat generated due to tectonic activity below the vent .
sediment characterised by a temperature of 15 - 45 degrees celsius and high - to - low oxygenation .
sediment characterised by a temperature of 45 - 75 degrees celsius and low to no oxygen content .
sediment characterised by a temperature of 80 - 125 degrees celsius and no oxygen content .
high temperature water ejected from hydrothermal vents and laden with dissolved metals and minerals as a result of percolation through crustal rocks .
sediment hosting and characterised by active nitrate reducing microbial communities .
an isolated fragment of rock ,  which fell vertically through the water column into  finer - grained water - deposited sedimentary rocks .
an accumulation of organic matter that has fallen to the bottom of a body of water .
a accumulation of plant matter that has fallen to the bottom of a body of water .
the carcass of an animal that has fallen to the bottom of a body of water .
whale fall is the term used for a whale carcass that has fallen to the ocean floor .
seal fall is the term used for a seal carcass that has fallen to the ocean floor .
a wood fall describes an accumulation of woody plant material that has fallen to the ocean floor .
sediment hosting and characterised by active manganese reducing microbial communities .
sediment hosting and characterised by active iron reducing microbial communities .
sediment hosting and characterised by active sulphate reducing microbial communities .
sediment hosting and characterised by active carbon dioxide reducing microbial communities .
environmental material derived from living organisms and composed primarily of one or more biomacromolecules .
material derived from a biofilm ,  an aggregate of microorganisms in which cells adhere to each other and / or to a surface .
material derived from a microbial mat ,  a multi - layered sheet of micro - organisms ,  mainly bacteria and archaea .
marine snow is a continuous shower of mostly organic detritus falling from the upper layers of the water column .
a prominent or distinctive aspect ,  quality ,  or characteristic pertaining to or derived from living organisms .
pockmarks are craters in the seabed resulting from the release of gas or liquid .
a marine sponge reef is marine reefs primarily built by marine sponges .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a photophore is a light - emitting organ which appears as luminous spots on various marine animals ,  including fish and cephalopods .
root nodules occur on the roots of plants that associate with symbiotic nitrogen - fixing bacteria .
a specialised organ found in deep - sea tube worms populating hydrothermal vent environments that is colonised by chemosynthetic bacteria which supply the host worm with organic compounds .
a specialized organ that is linked to the gut in beetles and host to a symbiotic yeast .
determinate nodules are root nodules found on tropical  ( sub ) legumes ,  such as those of the genera glycine  ( soybean )  ,  phaseolus   ( common bean )  ,  lotus ,  and vigna .
indeterminate nodules are found on temperate legumes like pisum   ( pea )  ,  medicago  ( alfalfa )  ,  trifolium  ( clover )  ,  and vicia  ( vetch )  .
a part of an indeterminate root nodule where new nodule tissue is formed which will later differentiate into the other zones of the nodule .
a part of an indeterminate root nodule permeated with infection threads full of bacteria .
a part of an indeterminate root nodule where each cell contains a large ,  central vacuole and the cytoplasm is filled with fully differentiated bacteroids which are actively fixing nitrogen .
a part of an indeterminate root nodule where plant cells and their bacteroid contents are being degraded .
water which lacks dissolved oxygen .
a forest ecosystem in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a woodland biome is a terrestrial biome which includes ,  across its entire spatial extent ,  woody plants spaced sufficiently far apart to allow light penetration to support communities of herbaceous plants or shrubs living closer to the woodland floor .
a shrubland biome is a terrestrial biome which includes ,  across its entire spatial extent ,  dense groups of shrubs .
a grassland ecosystem in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a savanna biome is a woodland biome which has seasonal water availability and includes ,  across its entire spatial extent ,  trees spaced sufficiently far apart to allow an unbroken layer of grass ,  sedge  ( cyperaceae )  or  rush  ( juncaceae )  communities to live .
a desert biome is a terrestrial biome which loses more liquid water by evapotranspiration than is supplied by precipitation and includes communities adapted to these conditions .
a terrestrial biome which comprises a tundra ecosystem that has reached its climax community .
a mangrove biome is a terrestrial biome which includes ,  across its spatial extent ,  mangrove plants  ( rhizophoraceae )  .
a temperate desert biome is a desert biome which has communities adapted to intermediate insolation ,  low rainfall ,  and large temperature variations between winter and summer .
a tropical desert biome is a desert biome which has communities adapted to temperatures above a monthly average of 18 degrees celsius ,  high daily temperature ranges of approximately 20 degrees celsius ,  very high insolation due to inhibited cloud formation ,  and very low precipitation .
a subtropical desert biome is a desert biome which has communities adapted to temperatures above a monthly average of 18 degrees celsius ,  high daily temperature ranges of approximately 20 degrees celsius ,  high insolation  ( but lower than that of a tropical desert biome )  ,  inhibited cloud formation ,  and very low precipitation .
a montane desert biome is a desert biome which occurs in regions elevated above sea level and which has community structure determined by elevation - dependent environmental conditions .
a polar desert biome is a desert biome which is subject to low levels of insolation ,  annual precipitation less than 250 millimeters ,  and a mean temperature less than 10 degrees celsius during its warmest month .
a flooded savanna biome is a savanna biome which has very wet to saturated soil moisture content .
a subtropical grassland in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a montane grassland biome is a grassland biome which occurs in regions elevated above sea level and which has community structure determined by elevation - dependent environmental conditions .
a coniferous forest biome is a forest biome which contains densely packed populations or communities of coniferous trees ,  strongly limiting light penetration to the forest floor .
a broadleaf forest in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a mixed forest in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a mediterranean forest in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a tropical broadleaf forest in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a subtropical broadleaf forest in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a broadleaf forest which is subject to temperate climate patterns .
an environmental condition is a range of a determinate quality or combination of qualities that are present in an environmental system .
a tropical condition is an environmental condition in which an environmental system receives high yearly solar irradiance per unit area and ,  on earth ,  the sun reaches a subsolar point at least once during the solar year .
a subtropical condition is an environmental condition in which an envrionmental system receives more solar irradiance than those with temperate conditions ,  but less than those with tropical conditions .
a temperate condition is an environmental condition in which an environmental system receives less solar irradiance than those with subpolar conditions ,  but greater than those with subtropical conditions .
a mediterranean condition is a subtropical condition in which hot dry summers and winters with moderate to high rainfall .
a subtropical woodland biome which includes communities adapted to hot to warm ,  dry summers ,  mild to cold ,  rainy winters ,  and the influence of large ,  usually marine ,  bodies of water .
a coniferous forest biome which is subject to subtropical climate patterns .
a coniferous forest biome which is subject to tropical climate patterns .
a coniferous forest biome which is subject to temperate climate patterns .
a temperate mixed forest in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a shrubland biome which is subject to subtropical climate patterns .
a montane shrubland biome is a shrubland biome which occurs in regions elevated above sea level and which has community structure determined by elevation - dependent environmental conditions .
a mediterranean shrubland biome is a subtropical shrubland biome which includes communities adapted to hot to warm ,  dry summers ,  mild to cold ,  rainy winters ,  and the influence of large ,  usually marine ,  bodies of water .
an anthropogenic terrestrial biome is a terrestrial biome which has community structures determined by human activity .
a woodland biome which is subject to subtropical climate patterns .
a montane savanna biome is a savanna biome which occurs in regions elevated above sea level and which has community structure determined by elevation - dependent environmental conditions .
a subtropical grassland biome which includes communities adapted to hot to warm ,  dry summers ,  mild to cold ,  rainy winters ,  and the influence of large ,  usually marine ,  bodies of water .
a subtropical dry broadleaf forest in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a subtropical moist broadleaf forest in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a tropical dry broadleaf forest in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a tropical moist broadleaf forest in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a savanna biome which is subject to mediterranean climate patterns .
an environmental condition in which annual precipitation is less than half of annual potential evapotranspiration .
lava is a mixture of molten or semi - molten rock ,  volatiles ,  and solids which has extruded beyond a planetary crust .
felsic lava is lava which is high in silica  (  >  69 percent by weight )  ,  aluminium ,  potassium ,  sodium ,  and calcium ,  forming a polymerized liquid rich in feldspar and quartz .
intermediate lava is lava which ,  relative to felsic lava ,  is lower in aluminium and silica  ( between 52 and 63 percent by weight )  ,  and usually somewhat richer in magnesium and iron .
mafic lava is lava which ,  relative to other lava types other than ultramafic lava ,  has a  high ferromagnesian content and low aluminium and silica content ,  with silca making up between 45 and 52 percent of its weight .
ultramafic lava is lava which ,  relative to other lava types ,  has very high magnesium oxide content and less than 45 percent silica by weight is thought to have erupted at temperatures of 1600 degrees celsius .
basalt is a volcanic rock which is formed by the rapid cooling of basaltic lava .
a coastal scrubland is a scrubland which is part of a coast .
a polar condition is an environmental condition in which an environmental system receives low ,  yearly solar irradiance per unit area ,  resulting in colder climatic conditions .
an oak woodland is a woodland which has a tree community primarily composed of oak trees .
a conifer woodland is a woodland which has a tree community primarily composed of coniferous trees ,  from the division pinophyta ,  also known as coniferophyta or coniferae .
a juniper woodland is a woodland which has a tree community primarily composed of trees of the genus juniperus .
a scrubland which is located in a desert .
a piece of rock with a grain size above 300 millimetres in diameter .
a pinyon juniper woodland is a conifer woodland which has a tree community primarily composed of trees of the subsection cembroides of the genus pinus and the genus juniperus .
a cropland ecosystem in which dominant ecological communities are maintained in a stable state  -  mimicking a climax community  -  by human intervention .
a village biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which contains settlements such as villages ,  towns ,  and / or small cities and which is primarily used for agricultural activity .
a rangeland biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which is primarily used for the rearing and grazing of livestock .
a dense settlement biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which is primarily used for human habitation ,  recreation ,  and industry within built structures with little other land use .
an urban biome is a dense settlement biome which has been urbanised .
a  coniferous forest biome which includes communities adapted to subpolar conditions .
a subpolar condition is an environmental condition in which an environmental system receives low ,  yearly solar irradiance per unit area and is surrounded by large land masses .
a biome which is determined by a freshwater lake .
a system which has the disposition to environ one or more material entities .
a mineral deposit is a physiographic feature which has unusually high concentrations of one or more minerals .
a mineral material is an environmental material which is primarily composed of some substance that is naturally occurring ,  solid and stable at room temperature ,  representable by a chemical formula ,  usually abiogenic ,  and that has an ordered atomic structure .
a hydrothermal vent found on the ocean floor which emits lighter - hued minerals ,  such as those containing barium ,  calcium and silicon .
a fluid front which is 1 )  thin in comparison to the fluid mass it is a part of and 2 )  across which a property of that fluid mass varies greatly over short vertical distance ,  relative to variation across the entire fluid mass .
a cline across which the density of a fluid changes rapidly .
a nutricline which is part of a water body .
a cline within a marine water body where the rate of calcite dissolution changes rapidly with depth .
a seep is a spring in which water has filtered through permeable earth to the surface .
merged definition: \ ntarget definition: a cold seep is a seep in which methane and other hydrocarbon - rich fluids rise to the sea floor . \ n -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  \ nsource definition: an area of the ocean floor where hydrogen sulfide ,  methane and other hydrocarbon - rich fluid seepage occurs .
a vapour is an environmental material in the gas phase at a temperature lower than its critical point .
a hydrothermal seep is a seep in which diffuse flow of geothermally heated fluids with high methane concentrations .
water vapour is a vapour which is the gas phase of water .
an atmosphere is a layer of gases surrounding a material body of sufficient mass that is held in place by the gravity of the body .
atmospheric water vapour is water vapour that is part of an atmosphere .
a sedimentary rock which is composed mainly of silt .
a clastic sedimentary rock which is composed primarily of clay sized particles .
clastic sedimentary rocks are sedimentary rocks that are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids .
a mudstone is a clastic sedimentary rock which contains a mixture of at least one third of silt -  and one third of clay - sized particles .
lime mudstone is a limestone which is primarily composed of either clay - size or both silt - size and clay - size detrital  ( transported )  carbonate grains .
slate is a metamorphic rock which is fine - grained ,  foliated ,  homogeneous ,  slates are derived from clastic sedimentary rocks .
a structural basin is a geological depression formed by tectonic warping of previously flat lying rock strata .
a large unit of land or water containing a geographically distinct assemblage of species ,  natural communities ,  and environmental conditions ."
ice is water frozen into a solid state .
a depression caused by the collapse of a pingo .
an ice mass which is formed when moisture ,  diffused within soil or rock ,  accumulates and freezes in a localized zone ,  wedging soil or rock apart .
ecozones delineate large areas of a planetary surface within which organisms have been evolving in relative isolation over long periods of time ,  separated from one another by geographic features ,  such as oceans ,  broad deserts ,  or high mountain ranges ,  that constitute barriers to migration .
a layer is a quantity of some material which is spatially continuous ,  has comparable thickness ,  and usually covers some surface .
a stratum is a layer which is composed of sedimentary rock or soil with internally consistent characteristics that distinguish it from other layers .
a layer which is part of a lake .
a lake which is permanently covered by ice ,  does not mix ,  and exhibit inverse cold water stratification whereby water temperature increases with depth below the ice surface .
a holomictic lake is a lake which mixes at least once per year .
a dimitic lake is a holomictic lake which mixes from top to bottom during two mixing periods each year .
a polymictic lake is a holomictic lake which is too shallow to allow thermal stratification and which can mix from top to bottom through the ice - free period of the year .
a monomictic  lake is a holomictic lake which mixes from top to bottom during one mixing period each year .
a monomictic lake which is covered by ice throughout much of the year and only mixes when its surface ice melts and the lake lacks thermal stratification .
a monomictic lake which does not freeze and is thermally stratified throughout most of the year ,  only mixing in winter when cooler temperatures ease stratification .
a cold polymictic lake is a polymictic lake which is covered by ice in winter .
a warm polymictic lake is a polymictic lake which is not covered by ice at any point during the year .
a mass of water ice .
a deep fissure in rock .
a layer that is part of a marine water body .
a lake bed which is dry .
a river where fresh water flows .
a slope which is part of the seafloor ,  descends from the continental crust to the oceanic crust ,  and comprises the continental shelf ,  continental slope ,  and continental rise .
a taylor column is a column of deflected fluid flow which is formed in a perturbed ,  rotating fluid ,  is parallel to the axis of rotation ,  and extends above the obstacle perturbing the fluid in a rigid manner .
an atmospheric taylor column is a taylor column that is formed in the atmosphere .
brackish water which is part of an estuary .
a portion of environmental material which protrudes through a surface layer .
an endolithic environment is an environment that exists within solid rock .
a high pressure environment is an environment in which all material entities are exposed to a high ratio of force per unit area .
a high temperature environment is an environment in which material entities are exposed to increased levels of heat radiation or which have molecules or atoms moving randomly with increased levels of average kinietic energy .
an aquatic environment which is determined by freshwater .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by saline water .
an environmental system which is located beyond the earth's exosphere and away from the earth's core .
an environment which has a lower temperature than some local or global average .
a haline environment is an environment in which entities are exposed to high concentrations of salt ,  typically above 2 molar .
a cultivated environment is an environment that has been modified by humans by the preparation of the land ,  usually for the purposes of growing crops .
a culturing environment is an environment which is maintained by humans for the purposes of preparing cell ,  organ ,  tissue and plant tissue cultures .
an anthropogenic environment is an environmental system which is the product of human activity .
a high osmolarity environment is an environment in which entities are exposed to high concentrations of solutes .
an acidic environment is an environment in which material entities are exposed to a low ph .
an alkaline environment is an environment in which entities are exposed to high ph ,  typically greater than a ph of 9 .
an environment whose dynamics are strongly influenced by water .
an extreme high temperature environment is a high temperature environment in which entities are exposed to temperatures above 80 degrees celsius .
a rocky slope is a slope which has a surface primarily composed of rock .
a marine environment and enviroment which is determined by a marine water body .
an environmental system determined by seawater .
an environment determined by the presence of brackish water .
the atmospheric boundary layer is the lowest layer of an atmosphere which is strongly influenced by its contact with a planetary surface with strong vertical mixing and in which physical quantities such as flow velocity ,  temperature ,  and moisture display rapid fluctuations  ( turbulence )  .
a planetary surface is a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of a planet comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
a layer in a water mass ,  itself composed primarily of water .
a subsurface layer in a water body ,  typically an ocean or lake ,  in which chlorophyll concentrations reach their maximum .
a strand swamp is a swamp that forms linear drainage channels on flatlands .
a dome swamp is a swamp which occurs in a depression where deeper waters at the centre of the swamp allow  trees to grow taller relative to those in shallower regions of the depression .
a cypress dome swamp is a dome swamp which has a plant community dominated by cupressaceae ,  often swamp cypresses .
a cypress strand swamp is a strand swamp which has a plant community dominated by cupressaceae ,  often swamp cypresses .
a cypress swamp is a swamp which has a plant community dominated by cupressaceae ,  often swamp cypresses .
a gravelly slope is a slope which has a surface primarily composed of gravel .
a hillside is a slope that is part of a hill .
a talus slope is a slope which has a surface layer composed of scree .
an understory is a layer of plant life which grows below the canopy without penetrating it .
a shrub layer is a layer of vegetation in a woodland or forest consisting of low ,  woody vegetation of frutescent form .
a herb and fern layer is a layer of a forest or woodland which is composed of all vascular plant life that are one metre or less in height .
a biome which is subject to polar climatic conditions .
an altitudinal condition which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a monthly mean temperature is less than 10 degrees celsius and being located at altitudes above the tree line and below the snowline .
an altitudinal condition which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being located at an altitude immediately below the tree line of an elevation .
an altitudinal condition which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being located at an altitude between mid - altitude forests and the tree line .
an altitudinal condition is an environmental condition in which ranges of factors such as temperature ,  humidity ,  soil composition ,  solar irradiation ,  and tree density vary with ranges in altitude .
an altitudinal condition which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having extremely limited vegetation cover ,  silica - enriched soils ,  and ground cover dominated by snow and ice at altitudes above the snowline .
an upper montane condition is a montane condition in which an altitude range falls immediately below the tree line .
a lower montane condition is a montane condition in which an altitude range falls immediately above mid - altitude forests .
a montane conifer woodland is a conifer woodland which is located within an altitude range that falls between mid - altitude forests and the tree line .
a field  used for the cultivation of corn or related crop plants .
an organic material primarily composed of a portion of plant root .
autoclaved sand is sand that has been sterlised by exposure to high pressure saturated steam at at least 121 degrees celsius .
a marine mesoscale eddy is a current of marine water which has a typical horizontal diameter of less than 100 km and persists for approximately one month .
an unbroken expanse  ( as of ice ) 
a mesoscale eddy field is an expanse of marine water which includes coherent vortices ,  as well as a rich cascade of other structures such as filaments ,  squirts and spirals and is characterized by temperature and salinity anomalies with associated flow anomalies that are nearly in geostrophic balance .
an ice cap climatic condition is a polar condition in which the montly average temperature does not exceed 0 degrees celsius .
a layer which is determined by a form of vegetation .
a portion of granite is a portion of igneous  rock which  is intrusive ,  felsic ,  granular ,  and phaneritic .
a portion of alkaline water is a portion of water with a ph greater than 7 .
a portion of acidic water is a portion of water with a ph less than 7 .
a cave formed in limestone ,  usually by dissolution of limestone by acidic groundwater .
a cave formed by the dissolution of soluble rock or other solid material such as limestone ,  chalk ,  dolomite ,  gypsum ,  salt or marble .
a cave formed at the same time as the surrounding rock .
a cave that is formed by the action of pressurised lava pushing against surrounding rock and then draining away .
a cave formed by erosion caused by flowing streams carrying rocks or sediments .
a glacier cave is a cave formed within or under a glacier .
an ice cave is a bedrock cave which contains year - round ice formations .
a talus cave is a cave formed by the openings between large boulders which have fallen into a random heap .
an anchialine cave is a cave which contains an anchialine pool .
an anchialine pool is a landlocked water body with a subterranean connection to the ocean and which has fresh water towards its surface with saline water in its deeper layers .
a cave which is within a vadose zone .
an tundra climatic condition is a polar condition in which at least one month's average temperature exceeds 0 degrees celsius .
agricultural waste is waste produced as a result of various agricultural operations .
household waste refers to waste material usually generated in the residential environment .
biological waste is waste containing mostly natural organic materials  ( remains of plants ,  animal excrement ,  biological sludge from waste - water treatment plants and so forth )  .
a dry woodland is a woodland which occurs in areas of rain shadow in a tropical marine climate ,   receives very little rainfall ,   typically has rapidly draining soils and trees which have adaptations to dry climates such as thick bark ,  small leaves ,  and the disposition to shed their leaves .
a tropical marine condition is a tropical condition in which the ocean strongly influences the climate and a wet and dry season occur .
a semi - evergreen forest is a forest which undergoes a long dry season and ,  as a consequence ,  has a two - storey layer structure ,   a dry canopy ,  a leaf litter layer that only decays during moist periods trees with very small leaves or which shed their leaves to conserve water and which flower during the dry season and grow during the wet season .
a humid subtropical condition is a subtropical condition in which an environmental system has hot ,  humid summers ,  warm to cool dry winters ,  and average annual precipitation either evenly distributed throughout the year or marked by a dry season or drying trend during winter
an arid subtropical condition is a subtropical condition in which an environmental system has an annual average temperature near 18 .2 degrees celsius with their coldest month averaging between 2 and 13 degrees celsius ,  the absence of regular rainfall ,  and high humidity .
a highland subtropical condition is a subtropical condition in which increased elevation results in mild summers ,  cooler winters ,  and ,  in some instances ,   snowfall associated with montly temperature averages below 22 but above  - 3 degrees celsius .
an oceanic temperate condition is a temperate condition which is strongly influenced by oceans and oceanic winds .
a continental temperate condition is a temperate condition which is influenced by large land masses .
a cold desert is a desert which has hot summers and cold ,  dry winters with temperatures below 0 degrees celsius
an evergreen needleleaf forest which is subject to temperate climate patterns .
a broadleaf forest which is subject to tropical climate patterns with high rainfall ,  is located in a lowland area ,  and is dominated by plants which retain their leaves throughout the year .
a deciduous broadleaf forest which is subject to temperate climate patterns .
a deciduous needleleaf forest which is subject to temperate climate patterns .
a deciduous broadleaf forest which is subject to tropical climate patterns .
a semi - deciduous broadleaf forest which is subject to tropical climate patterns .
a temperate mixed forest which has communities of trees composed primarily of species with broad leaves .
a temperate mixed forest which has communities of trees composed primarily of species with needle - like leaves  ( e .g .
a montane forest which is located in a region subject to tropical climate patterns modulated by sufficient elevation to encounter upper montane climate patterns .
a montane forest which is located in a region subject to tropical climate patterns modulated by sufficient elevation to encounter lower montane climatic patterns .
a freshwater swamp forest which is subject to tropical climate patterns .
a sclerophyllous forest which is subject to temperate climate patterns .
a sclerophyllous forest which is subject to tropical climate patterns .
a broadleaf evergreen forest which is subject to temperate climate patterns .
a freshwater swamp forest which is subject to temperate climate patterns .
a needleleaf forest which is subject to tropical climate patterns .
a mixed needleleaf forest which has communities of trees composed primarily of species with needle - like leaves  ( e .g .
a tropical mixed broadleaf forest which has communities of trees composed primarily of species with broad leaves .
a  ( portion of )  plastic is an  ( portion of )  anthropogenic environmental material including any of numerous organic synthetic or processed materials which are primarily composed of thermoplastic or thermosetting polymers of high molecular weight .
a portion of respirable suspended particulate matter is a form of particulate matter composed primarily of solid particles each with a diameter of 10 micrometers or less .
snow is an environmental material which is primarily composed of flakes of crystalline water ice .
an aquatic environment which is the part of a sea ,  lake ,  or river that is close to the shore .
a site which has its extent determined by the presence or influence of one or more components of an environmental system or the processes occurring therein .
a freshwater littoral zone is a littoral zone which extends offshore from the shore of a freshwater body of water to the limit of occupancy of rooted plants .
the eulittoral zone extends from the spring high tide line ,  which is rarely inundated ,  to the spring low tide line ,  which is rarely not inundated .
a zone which is part of the sublittoral zone and is dominated by algae .
a zone which is part of the sublittoral zone and is dominated by sessile animals such as oysters .
a whole plant which is relatively old
a whole plant which is relatively young .
a portion of fine respirable suspended particulate matter is a form of particulate matter composed primarily of solid particles each with a diameter of 2 .5 micrometers or less .
a portion of fine respirable suspended particulate matter is a form of particulate matter composed primarily of solid particles each with a diameter of  100 nanometers or less .
a house is a building that provides a dwelling - place for a living entity .
a garden that is associated with a human house .
a building part is a construction which is part of a building .
an indoor kitchen is a room or part of a room primarily used  for cooking or food preparation ,  but which may have other funcitons such as dining ,  food storage ,  dishwashing ,  or laundry .
a bathroom is a room which contains a washbasin or other fixture ,  such as a shower or bath ,  used for bathing by humans .
a living room is a room in a human house which is used for social and domestic leisure activities .
a patio is a paved outdoor area ,  adjacent to a human house ,  and used for dining or recreation .
an indoor toilet is a room which contains a sanitation fixture used primarily for the disposal of human urine and faeces .
a building part which is separated from other building parts by one or more interior walls and ,  optionally ,  outdoor areas by one or more exterior walls .
a portion of carbon nanotube enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of carbon nanotubes .
a rocky shore is an intertidal area of a seacoast where solid rock is the predominant substrate .
a burrow is a hole or tunnel excavated into the ground by an animal to create a space suitable for habitation ,  temporary refuge ,  or as a byproduct of locomotion
a forest biome which contains densely packed populations or communities of broadleaf trees ,  strongly limiting light penetration to the forest floor .
a forest ecosystem which contains densely packed populations or communities of broadleaf and coniferous trees ,  strongly limiting light penetration to the forest floor .
waterborne particulate matter is a form of particulate matter in which small portions of solid material are surrounded by water .
a lava field is an expanse of flat - lying lava flows .
a lava flow is a moving outpouring of lava ,  which is created during a non - explosive effusive eruption .
andesite is an extrusive igneous ,  volcanic rock ,  of intermediate composition ,  with aphanitic to porphyritic texture .
dacite is an igneous ,  volcanic rock .
an accumulation of a salt ,  typically sodium chloride .
an ecosystem which has been subject to a perturbation ,  that is ,  the ecosystem has undergone a pronounced change in response to a change in environmental conditions or other perturbation .
a ravine is a small ,  narrow ,  steep - sided valley that is larger than a gully and smaller than a canyon and that is usually worn by running water .
an environmental zone of varying area which is adjacent to a road .
a grassland which contains a mixture of tall and short grasses .
a wet meadow is a type of wetland with soils that are saturated with water for part or all of the growing season .
a mass of salt which has erupted onto a planetary surface ,  usually through sedimentary rock .
atmospheric carbon dioxide is an environmental material composed of carbon dioxide in its gaseous form present in an atmosphere .
a disposition which is realised by an environmental system or system parts thereof .
the disposition of an environmental system to sequester and store carbon .
the disposition of an environment to sequester carbon dioxide ,  subsequently storing the carbon component thereof .
the disposition of an environmental system to sequester and store some material entity .
a concrete masonry unit is a large ,  rectangular masonry unit primarily composed of concrete .
a masonry unit is a solid piece of material ,  usually with a regular shape ,  used as a component in the construction of buildings .
concrete is a composite material composed of an aggregate bonded together with a fluid cement which hardens over time .
asphaltic concrete is a concrete which uses refined asphalt as a cement .
asphalt also known as bitumen is a sticky ,  black ,  and highly viscous liquid or semi - solid form of petroleum .
refined asphalt is a sticky ,  black ,  and highly viscous liquid or semi - solid with a boiling point above 500 degrees celsius ,  obtained from the fractional distillation of crude oil .
masonry cement is a substance used in construction that has the disposition to set and harden and thus may be used to bind materials together .
hydraulic cement is a masonry cement which contains activated aluminium silicates or pozzolans ,  such as fly ash ,  allowing it to set in wet conditions or underwater .
non - hydraulic cement is a cement which sets by reacting with carbon dioxide in the air and will not set in wet conditions or underwater .
building walls are bulding parts which serve to support roofs ,  floors and ceilings ;  enclose a space as part of the building envelope ;  give buildings form ;  and to provide shelter and security .
a boundary wall is a constructed barrier which is usually opaque ,  constructed from masonry ,  and of greater structural strength than a fence .
a constructed barrier is a freestanding wall ,  berm ,  or fence built to limit movement of entities across a boundary .
a fence is a constructed barrier which is  generally of lighter construction than a wall and used to provide visual sectioning of spaces .
an exterior wall is a building wall which separates the interior of a building from the buildings surrounding environment .
a building envelope is a building part composed of those building parts which physically separate the interior of a building from its surrounding environment . \ nthe building envelope provides resistance to air ,  water ,  heat ,  light ,  and noise transfer .
a roof is the covering on the uppermost part of a building which provides protection from animals and weather ,  notably rain ,  but also heat ,  wind and sunlight .
thatch is material composed of dry vegetation such as straw ,  water reed ,  sedge  ( cladium mariscus )  ,  rushes ,  or heather .
a portion of brick material is a material derived from a brick which is composed of  kneaded clay - bearing soil ,  expanded clay aggregate ,  sand and lime ,  or concrete that has been fire - hardened or air - dried .
a brick is a masonry unit which is composed of kneaded clay - bearing soil ,  expanded clay aggregate ,  sand and lime ,  or concrete material ,  fire - hardened or air - dried .
plaster is a building material which has the disposition to harden when it reacts with water ,  liberating heat through crystallization .
gypsum plaster is a plaster which is formed by partially dehydrating gypsum by heating it to approximately 150 degrees celsius and grinding the product into a powder .
lime plaster is a plaster which is primarily composed of calcium hydroxide and an inert filler  ( such as sand )  .
glass is an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  solid which is often transparent .
silica - based glass is a glass composed primarily of silicon dioxide ,  the primary constituent of sand .
soda - lime glass is a silica - based glass which is composed of approximately 75% silicon dioxide ,  with sodium oxide and calcium oxide consituting most of its remaining composition .
flat glass is a soda - lime glass which is composed of approximately 73% silicon dioxide  ( silica )  ,  14% sodium oxide ,  9% calcium oxide ,  4% magnesium oxide ,  0 .15% aluminium oxide ,  0 .03% potassium oxide ,  0 .02% titanum dioxide ,  and 0 .01% iron iii oxide .
container glass is a soda - lime glass which is composed of approximately 74% silicon dioxide  ( silica )  ,  13% sodium oxide ,  10 .5% calcium oxide ,  1 .3% aluminium oxide ,  0 .3% potassium oxide ,  0 .2% sulphur trioxide ,  0 .2% magnesium oxide ,   0 .04% iron iii oxide ,  and 0 .01%  titanum dioxide .
quartz glass is a glass which is composed of silica in amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form .
a building floor is a surface layer which is part of a building and used for walking .
a brick building floor is a building floor that is composed primarily of brick material or is built from bricks .
a wooden building floor is a building floor that is composed primarily of wood .
a concrete building floor is a building floor that is composed primarily of concrete
a sandy building floor is a building floor that is composed primarily of sand .
a glass building floor is a building floor which is composed primarily of glass .
a dung building floor is a building floor which is composed primarily of dried animal feces .
a stone building floor is a building floor that is composed primarily of rock .
a thatched exterior wall is an exterior wall that is composed primarily of thatch .
a stone exterior wall is an exterior wall that is composed primarily of rock .
a straw exterior wall is an exterior wall that is composed primarily of straw .
a mud exterior wall is an exterior wall that is composed primarily of mud .
a solid ,  cylindrical object or column with its length greater than its diameter .
a pole - reinforced mud exterior wall is a mud exterior wall which is supported and reinforced by poles .
a brick exterior wall is an exterior wall that is built from bricks .
a burnt brick is a brick which has been dried at an elvated temperature in a kiln ,  furnace ,  or with similar technology  .
an unburnt brick is a brick which has been air dried rather than dried at an elvated temperature in a kiln ,  furnace ,  or with similar technology  .
a burnt brick exterior wall is an exterior wall that is built from burnt bricks .
an unburnt brick exterior wall is an exterior wall that is built from unburnt bricks .
a dome - shaped mass of salt formed when a thick bed of evaporite minerals  ( mainly salt ,  or halite )  found at depth intrudes vertically into surrounding rock strata ,  forming a diapir .
a concrete exterior wall is an exterior wall that is composed primarily of concrete .
an iron sheet is a mass of iron which has been forged into a roughly planar form of less than 6 millimetres in thickness .
a sheet - iron exterior wall is an exterior wall that is built from sheets of iron .
a sheet - iron building roof is a building roof that is built from sheets of iron .
a thatched building roof is a building roof that is built by thatching  ( or out of thatch )  .
a wooden building roof is a building roof that is built from wood .
an asbestos building roof is a building roof that is built from asbestos .
a tile is a manufactured piece of hard - wearing material such as ceramic ,  stone ,  metal ,  or even glass ,  generally used for covering roofs ,  floors ,  walls ,  showers ,  or other objects such as tabletops .
a tile building roof is a building roof that is built using tiles .
a fixture which is used primarily for the collection and ,  in some cases ,  disposal of human urine and feces .
a pit latrine is a latrine which is constructed by digging a hole in the ground .
a diapir is a type of geologic intrusion in which a more mobile and ductily deformable material is forced into brittle overlying rocks due to its higher buoyancy .
a latrine is a toilet which is of simple construction  ( relative to a flush or chemical toilet )  and typically intended for communal use .
a latrine slab is a  broad ,  flat ,  thick piece of solid material  ( typically stone or concrete )  used as the floor of a latrine and which includes a hole through which excreta are deposited into a latrine pit .
a batholith is an area of mostly continuous plutonic  ( igneous intrusive )  rock that covers an area larger than 100 square kilometers ,  formed in the planetary crust ,  and exposed by erosion .
a latrine pit is an artificial hole or cavity in the ground used to collect human excreta .
a pit latrine with a slab floor is a pit latrine which has a latrine slab as a floor .
an outhouse is a small structure ,  separate from a main building ,  which covers a pit latrine or a dry toilet .
an intrusion which is primarily composed of rock which has been formed within a pre - existing fracture in a larger mass of rock .
a toilet fixture which uses water to flush liquid and solid excreta into a sewage containment or processing facility through a drainpipe .
a toilet fixture which uses little to no water ;  excreta is removed manually or composted in situ .
a chemical toilet fixture is a toilet fixture which uses chemicals to deodorise and treat excreta which is stored in the fixture .
a ventilated improved pit latrine is a pit latrine which includes a vent pipe fitted to the pit with a flyscreen covering the pipe's outlet .
a covered latrine is a building which comprises a latrine sheltered by an outhouse .
a covered pit latrine is a building which comprises a pit latrine sheltered by an outhouse .
a covered pit latrine with slab is a building which comprises a pit latrine with a slab floor sheltered by an outhouse .
a flush toilet fixture into which water is manually poured to dispose of excreta .
a pit latrine which includes a water seal  ( u - trap or siphon )  used over one or two offset pits instead of a plain hole or seat .
a factory  ( previously manufactory )  or manufacturing plant is an industrial site ,  usually consisting of buildings and machinery ,  or more commonly a complex having several buildings ,  where workers manufacture goods or operate machines processing one product into another .
atmospheric ozone is an environmental material primarily composed of ozone in its gaseous form and present in an atmosphere .
the layer of the atmosphere which is sandwiched between the troposphere and mesosphere .
the mesosphere is part of the earth's atmosphere which is between the stratosphere and the thermosphere in which temperature decreases with altitude to the atmosphere's absolute minimum
the lowest of the concentric layers of the atmosphere ,  occurring between the earth's surface and the tropopause .
the thermosphere is a part of the earth's atmosphere that begins at about 50 miles  ( 80 kilometers )  above the earth's surface ,  extends to outer space ,  and is characterized by steadily increasing temperature with height
the ozone layer is a layer of gases in the stratosphere which contains high concentrations of ozone gas relative to other parts of the atmosphere .
a layer that is part of the atmosphere .
a boundary layer is a layer of fluid in the immediate vicinity of a bounding surface where the effects of viscosity are significant enough to distort the surrounding non - viscous flow .
the ionosphere is a layer of the earth's atmosphere which extends from about 60 to 1 , 000 kilometers above the planetary surface and is ionised by solar radiation .
the exosphere is an atmospheric layer where molecules are gravitationally bound to a planetary body ,  but where their density is too low for them to behave as a gas by colliding with each other .
a glaze ice layer is a smooth ,  transparent and homogeneous ice layer which coats some surface and which is formed when freezing rain or drizzle hits that surface .
a lake which has nutrient - rich water .
a composting toilet fixture is a dry toilet fixture in which managed ,  aerobic decomposition converts human excreta into organic matter suitable for the fertilisation or amendment of soils .
a fuel oil which is 1 )  composed primarily of alkanes having between 5 - 15 carbon atoms with the general formula cnh2n + 2 ,  2 )  is generally odorless or has only a slight odor ,  3 )  produces only small amounts of soot relative to other fuel oils ,  4 )  is highly refined .
natural gas is a hydrocarbon gas mixture consisting primarily of methane ,  but commonly includes varying amounts of other higher alkanes and sometimes a usually lesser percentage of carbon dioxide ,  nitrogen ,  and / or hydrogen sulfide .
liquified petroleum gas or liquid petroleum gas  ( lpg or lp gas )  ,  also referred to as simply propane or butane ,  are flammable mixtures of hydrocarbon gases used as fuel in heating appliances ,  cooking equipment ,  and vehicles .
a gas that is primarily composed of hydrocarbon molecules .
compressed natural gas is a natural gas stored at high pressures ,  typically 2025 megapascals .
biogas is a mixture of different gases produced by the breakdown of organic matter in the absence of oxygen ,   is primarily composed of methane and carbon dioxide ,  and may have small amounts of hydrogen sulfide ,  water ,  and siloxanes .
liquefied natural gas  ( lng )  is natural gas  ( predominantly methane ,  ch4 )  that has been converted to liquid form for ease of storage or transport .
compressed biogas is biogas stored at increased pressures .
charcoal is a light ,  black residue ,  consisting of carbon and any remaining ash ,  obtained by removing water and other volatile constituents from animal and vegetation substances .
a paraffin lamp is a type of lighting device which burns paraffin to generate light and heat .
a flat - wick lamp is a simple type of paraffin lamp ,  which burns paraffin drawn up through a wick by capillary action .
a central - draught lamp is a paraffin lamp which burns a parrafin saturated ,  tubular wick contained between two structural tubes and supplied with oxygen by a central draught of air through the innermost of these tube .
a mantle lamp is a central - draught lamp which includes a pear - shaped ,  fabric mesh containing thorium or other rare - earth salts placed over the burner .
a lantern is a portable device or mounted fixture comprising a light source protected by a translucent case .
a lamp is an object which generates heat ,  light ,  or any other form of radiation .
a paraffin lantern is a lantern which houses a parrafin lamp in a structure of soldered or crimped - together sheet metal stampings and glass or other translucent material .
a tubular paraffin lantern is a paraffin lantern which includes metal tubes in its casing that direct air to the burning wick .
a dead - flame paraffin lantern is a paraffin lantern which has a wick housed in a glass globe with airflow channelled upwards by vents below the burning wick and an open chimney above it .
a hot - blast paraffin lantern is a tubular paraffin lantern which collects hot air from the top of the lantern globe and circulates it ,  through metal tubes ,  to the burning wick .
a cold - blast paraffin lantern is a tubular paraffin lantern which collects cool air from around the top of the lantern globe and circulates it ,  through metal tubes ,  to the burning wick .
an electric lamp is a lamp which produces light from electricity .
a battery - powered electric lamp is an electric lamp which draws its power from a device composed of two or more electrochemical cells that convert stored chemical energy into electrical energy .
a candle is a lamp composed of a wax within which an ignitable wick is embedded .
a wax is an environmental material which is primarily composed of lipids or other organic compounds that consist of long alkyl chains .
an apiary is a place where beehives of honey bees are kept and maintained by beekeepers .
a device capable of receiving and / or transmitting information encoded in electromagnetic radiation through wave modulation .
a cassette deck is a device capable of playing and recording audio compact cassettes .
a television set is a device that combines a tuner ,  display ,  and loudspeakers for the purpose of converting digital or analog information signals into moving images and sound .
a telephone is a telecommunications device which converts sound into electronic signals suitable for transmission via cables or other transmission media ,  and reconverts such signals into sound waves .
a mobile phone is a telephone which transmits sound information to a mobile phone network via radio transmissions .
a landline telephone is a telephone which is connected to a telephone network with wires through which electronic signals are carried .
a refrigerator is a device which consists of a thermally insulated compartment and a mechanical ,  chemical ,  or electronic heat pump that transfers heat from the inside of the fridge to its external environment such that the inside of the fridge is cooled to a temperature below the ambient temperature of the room
a table is a form of furniture with a flat horizontal upper surface used to support objects ,  for storage ,  show ,  and / or manipulation .
a desk is a table which is intended for information - manipulation tasks ,  including writing and use of interactive electronics .
a chair is a piece of furniture with a raised surface commonly used to seat a single person .
a piece of furniture is a movable object intended to support various human activities such as seating  ( e .g . ,  chairs ,  stools and sofas )  and sleeping  ( e .g . ,  beds )  .
a sofa is a bench which is partially or entirely upholstered ,  and often fitted with springs and tailored cushions .
a bench is a piece of furniture ,  on which several people may sit at the same time .
a mattress is a mass of material which is able to cushion and support a reclining body and is used as or on a bed .
a bed frame is a piece of furniture which is used to position a mattress and bed base and may include a means of supporting a canopy .
a bed base is a piece of furniture which supports a mattress .
a framed bed is a piece of furniture which is composed of a mattress supported by a bed base and held in place by a bed frame .
a cabinet is a roughly cuboidal piece of furniture which is used to store miscellaneous items in compartments accessible through doors or drawers .
a cupboard is a cabinet which is used indoors to store household objects such as food ,  crockery ,  textiles and liquor ,  and to protect them from dust and dirt
a clock is an instrument which may indicate ,  keep ,  and / or co - ordinate time .
a pressure lamp is a portable paraffin or oil lamp in which fuel is forced up into the mantle or burner by air pressure in the reservoir ,  which can be increased by pumping with a plunger .
a spring which emits fresh water .
rainwater is liquid water which has precipitated in the form of droplets through the condensation of atmospheric water vapour .
a motor vehicle is a vehicle which is propelled by an engine or motor and that does not operate on rails .
a truck is a motor vehicle which ,  as its primary funcion ,  transports cargo rather than human passangers .
a water truck is a truck which transports water .
a vehicle is a mobile machine which transports people or cargo .
a car is a wheeled motor vehicle used primarily for the transportation of human passengers .
a cart is a vehicle which has two wheels and is designed to transport human passengers or cargo .
an animal - drawn cart is a cart which is attached to one or more working or draught animals .
a boat is a watercraft of any size which is able to float or plane on water .
a motor boat is a boat which is propelled by a motor .
a motor is a machine designed to convert one or more forms of energy into mechanical energy .
a bus is a road vehicle designed to carry many passengers .
a taxicab is a car which may be hired ,  along with its operator ,  to transport passengers between locations of their choosing .
a watercraft is a vehicle which is able to travel on or through water .
a bicycle is a human - powered ,  pedal - driven ,  single - track vehicle ,  having two wheels attached to a frame ,  one behind the other .
a motorcycle is a two -  or three - wheeled motor vehicle .
a scooter or motor scooter is a motorcycle with step - through frame and a platform for the rider's feet .
a lentic water body is a water body in which the accumulated water ,  in its totality ,  has very little to no directed flow .
a lotic water body is a water body in which the accumulated water ,  in its totality ,  is flowing .
a closed ecological system is a vivarium which does not rely on matter exchange with any part outside the system .
a mesocosm is a vivarium that is embedded within a natural environment and is used to place a relatively small part of that environment under experimental control for the purposes of scientific investigation .
a microcosm is a vivarium within which a simple ecosystem is artificially established and used to simulate and predict the behaviour of natural ecosystems under controlled conditions .
vaporisation of an element or compound is process whereby that element or compound undergoes a phase transition from the liquid to vapor .
boiling is a form of vaporisation which occurs when a liquid is heated to a temperature at which the vapor pressure of the liquid is equal to the pressure exerted on the liquid by the surrounding environmental pressure .
hydrological condensation is a process in which atmospheric water vapour undergoes a phase transition from the gas phase to the liquid phase .
a manufactured structure made of interspaced structural elements such as metal or wooden bars or wires held together such that they may be used to confine ,  contain ,  or protect something .
a drylot is an enclosure of limited size usually bare of vegetation and used for fattening livestock .
a feedlot is a plot of land on which livestock are fattened for market
leaf litter is dead plant material ,  such as leaves ,  bark ,  needles ,  and twigs ,  that has fallen to the ground .
the long - term fluctuations in temperature ,  precipitation ,  wind ,  and all other aspects of the earth's climate .
acidification of an aquatic environment is a process whereby the ph of an aquatic environment ,  biome ,  or water body is lowered .
ocean acidification is a process during which the ph of a sea or ocean is lowered .
a chonolith is an igneous rock intrusion of irregular shape with a demonstrable base ,  absent in other types of irregularly - shaped intrusions .
a process which consists of all aerobic respiration processes instantiated in an ecosystem .
a volcanic eruption is a process during which lava ,  tephra  ( ash ,  lapilli ,  volcanic bombs and blocks )  ,  and assorted gases are expelled from a volcanic vent or fissure .
a landmass which is part of a planet .
outer space is a hard vacuum containing a low density of particles ,  predominantly a plasma of hydrogen and helium as well as electromagnetic radiation ,  magnetic fields ,  neutrinos ,  dust and cosmic rays that exists between celestial bodies .
a planetary crust is the outermost solid shell of a rocky planet or natural satellite ,  which is chemically distinct from the underlying mantle .
a planetary structural layer is laminar part of a terrestrial planet or other rocky body large enough to have differentiation by density .
a planetary mantle is a planetary layer which is an interior part of a terrestrial planet or other rocky body large enough to have differentiation by density .
a planetary core is the innermost structural layer or layers of a planet .
a liquid planetary core is a planetary core which is primarily composed of liquid material .
a solid planetary core is a planetary core which is primarily composed of solid material .
a lithosphere is the outermost shell of a terrestrial - type planet or natural satellite that is defined by its rigid mechanical properties .
an asthenosphere is a layer of a terrestrial - type planet or natural satellite which is highly viscous ,  mechanically weak ,  and ductilely deforming .
magma is a mixture of molten or semi - molten rock ,  volatiles ,  and solids that is found beneath the uppermost solid layer of a planetary body .
a trench is a type of excavation or depression in the ground that is generally deeper than it is wide  ( as opposed to a wider gully or ditch )  ,  and narrow compared to its length  ( as opposed to a simple hole )  .
an ocean strait is a strait which connects two oceans .
a slum is a heavily populated urban informal settlement with substandard housing in which households lack any one of the following: access to improved water ,  access to improved sanitation ,  sufficient - living area ,  durability of housing ,  or security of tenure .
an undersea trough is a trough which is below a marine water body .
an explosive eruption is a volcanic process in which pressurised magma is violently expelled and froths into volcanic ash .
an effusive eruption is a volcanic eruption during which lava flows onto the ground .
a process whereby rising magma cools and solidifies without reaching the surface .
a settlement with a high density of buildings and inhabitants .
an igneous intrusion is a mass of rock and minerals formed when magma cools ,  solidifies ,  and undergoes fractional crystallisation without reaching the surface .
tephra is fragmental material produced by a volcanic eruption regardless of composition ,  fragment size or emplacement mechanism .
tuff is a type of rock made of volcanic ash ejected from a vent during a volcanic eruption .
scoria is a highly vesicular ,  dark colored volcanic rock that may or may not contain crystals .
pumice is a volcanic rock that consists of highly vesicular rough textured volcanic glass ,  which may or may not contain crystals .
a cone that is composed of consolidated volcanic ash .
a role that is realized in some process wherein the bearer is discarded or not utilized further .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily composed of water in contact with an atmospheric column extending from the planetary boundary layer to the planet's exosphere with little to no physical obstruction .
a geological fracture is any separation in a geologic formation ,  such as a joint or a fault that divides a mass of rock into two or more pieces .
a geological fault is a planar fracture or discontinuity in a volume of rock ,  across which there has been significant displacement as a result of rock mass movement .
an active fault is a fault that is likely to become the source of another earthquake sometime in the future .
a vein is a geological fracture which is filled with minerals precipitated out of an aqueous solution .
a sheet of rock that formed in a fracture in a pre - existing rock body .
a joint is a geological fracture which has no measureable shear displacement
a geological fracture across which shear displacement has occurred
a microfracture is a small fracture which is found in a portion of solid material along which further fracturing tends to occur .
a vertical pillar defined by a unit area on a planetary surface and bounded by the top of the atmosphere that is used to quantify an atmospheric parameter such as pressure ,  ozone or precipitable water .
contaminated air is air which has sufficient concentrations of environmental pollutants such that it may adversely affect a given ecosystem .
an earthquake is a process during which energy is released in an astronomical body's crust ,  causing the displacement of crustal parts and the generation of seismic waves .
an earthquake caused by the sudden release of energy accumulated in an astronomical body's crust ,  as the elastic strain placed on constituent rock masses causes them to fracture .
a megathrust earthquake is a tectonic earthquake which occurs at subduction zones at destructive plate boundaries  ( convergent boundaries )  .
a lake which has concentrations of environmental contaminants high enough to harm the ecosystems associated with it .
a mineral material composed primarily of sodium chloride .
a glacial abrasion process is an erosional process during which debris in the basal ice scrapes along the bed ,  polishing and gouging the underlying rocks ,  similar to sandpaper on wood .
glacial plucking is an erosional process during which pieces of bedrock are cracked off due to the mechanical force of a moving glacier .
glacial ice thrusting is an erosional process during which a moving glacier which has frozen to its bed surges forward and moves large sheets of sediment frozen to the glacial mass .
a mass of water .
a mass of marine water .
a coast is the area where land meets the sea ,  ocean ,  or lake .
the general region of indefinite width that extends from a lake inland to the first major change in terrain features .
a tsunami is a process during which a series of waves is generated in a water body ,  typically an ocean or large lake ,  by the displacement of a large volume of water .
mass wasting is the geomorphic process by which solid environmental material such as soil ,  sand ,  regolith ,  and / or rock move downslope typically as a mass ,  largely under the force of gravity ,  but frequently affected by water and water content as in submarine environments and mudslides .
a mass wasting flow during which snow rapidly flows down a sloping surface .
a landslide is a process whereby a large mass of earth and rocks moves down a hill or a mountainside .
a material transport process during which a geological surface shifts downward relative to a datum such as sea - level .
a mass wasting flow is a form of mass wasting during which the moving materials behave similarly to a flowing fluid .
a mudflow is a form of mass wasting which involves very rapid to extremely rapid surging flow of debris that has become partially or fully liquified by the addition of significant amounts of water to clay - rich source material .
a lahar is a type of mudflow or debris flow composed of a slurry of pyroclastic material ,  rocky debris ,  and water .
a sturzstrom is a landslide consisting which has a great amount of kinetic energy resulting in greater horizontal movement when compared to its initial vertical drop  as much as 20 or 30 times the vertical distance .
volcanic ash is an environmental material which consists of fragments of pulverized rock ,  minerals ,  and volcanic glass ,  created during volcanic eruptions and measuring less than 2 millimetres in diameter .
an ash fall process is a process in which volcanic ash formed during an explosive volcanic eruption ,  phreatomagmatic eruption ,  or during material transport in pyroclastic density currents is pulled towards the planetary surface by gravity .
hydrological precipitation is a process during which any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapour is pulled to the planetary surface by gravity .
hydrological evaporation is the evaporation of water ,  generally as part of a planetary water cycle .
soil degradation is a process which results in a change in soil health status resulting in a diminished capacity of the ecosystem in which the soil occurs to provide goods and services for its  beneficiaries .
soil erosion is a process in which exogenic processes remove soil from one location on the earth's crust and transport it to another location where it is deposited .
coastal flooding is a process in which normally dry ,  low - lying land near a coast is flooded by sea water .
riverine flooding is a process in which the flow rate of river water exceeds the capacity of its channel ,  thus flooding neighbouring land .
flash flooding is a process in which low - lying land is inundated with water for a short period of time and are usually the result of precipitation or a breach in the container of a water body .
an unusual accumulation of water above the ground caused by high tide ,  heavy rain ,  melting snow or rapid runoff from paved areas .
a coastal flood is a flood which is formed as a result of large amounts of water from marine water bodies or large lakes being transported to usually dry land by displacement processes such as high winds or seismic activity .
a riverine flood is a flood which is formed as a result of a river's flow rate exceeding the capacity of its channel .
a flash flood is a flood formed by the rapid flooding of geomorphic low - lying areas .
a storm surge is a coastal flood which is caused by low - pressure weather systems such as tropical cyclones and strong extratropical cyclones ,  the severity of which is affected by the shallowness and orientation of the water body relative to storm path ,  and the timing of tides .
a meteotsunami is a tsunami caused by atmospheric processes and differences in air pressure .
a storm surge process is a coastal flooding process which is caused by low pressure weather systems such as tropical cyclones and strong extratropical cyclones ,  the severity of which is affected by the shallowness and orientation of the water body relative to storm path ,  and the timing of tides .
areal flooding is a flooding process in which flat or low - lying areas become inundated with water due to water input exceeding infiltration ,  evaporation ,  or run off .
urban flooding is a flooding process in which land or property in a built environment ,  particularly in more densely populated areas ,  is inundated due to the rate of water input exceeding that of water drainage provided by the environment's drainage systems .
snowmelt is a hydrological melting process in which water is produced by the melting of snow and becomes part of the hydrological surface runoff .
a melting process during which water - based ice ,  snow ,  or other solid phase water transitions into a liquid phase .
icemelt is a hydrological melthing process in which water is produced by the melting of ice and becomes part of the hydrological surface runoff .
meltwater is the water released by the melting of snow or ice ,  including glacial ice ,  tabular icebergs and ice shelves over oceans .
melting is a physical process that results in the phase transition of a substance from a solid to a liquid .
condensation is a process during which a gas undergoes a phase transition into a liquid .
chemical precipitation is a process in which a portion of some solid substance segregates from a material in which that substance or its precursors were dissolved in and settles due to a force such as gravity or centrifugal force .
desublimation is a process in which a portion of some gas undergoes a phase transition into a portion of some solid .
sublimation is a process during which a portion of some solid undergoes a phase transition into a portion of some gas .
a tectonic uplift process is a geomorphologic process in which a geological surface shifts upward relative to a datum such as sea - level due to forces other than isostatic responses to unloading .
a material transport process during which a mass of air moves through an atmosphere towards a planetary surface .
a process in which a volume of lava emitted during an effusive eruption moves along a solid surface .
a mass of igneous rock formed when hot magma flows out  ( extrudes )  onto a planetary surface as lava or explodes violently into the atmosphere to fall back as pyroclastics or tuff .
a dike formed when sediment fills a pre - existing fracture in a mass of rock .
a stock is a discordant igneous intrusion having a surface exposure of less than 100 square kilometres .
a sheet intrusion  ( or concordant pluton )  that has been injected between two layers of sedimentary rock .
a large igneous intrusion which is lenticular in shape with a depressed central region .
a phacolith is an intrusion parallel to the bedding plane or foliation of folded country rock .
a process whereby the precursors of rock ,  such as magma or sedimentary particles ,  fill a fracture in a mass of rock .
an environmental system which can sustain and allow the growth of an ecological population .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily composed of water ice ,  present throughout multiple years ,  in contact with an atmospheric column extending from the planetary boundary layer to the planet's exosphere with little to no physical obstruction .
a process in which some input bearing a waste role is consumed to produce an output which bears a resource role .
a carbon emission process is any environmental process which outputs a carbon - bearing gas .
a process in which natural ecosystems present over an expanse of land are removed and replaced with anthropogenic ecosystems .
a self - contained constructed feature used by one or more households as a home ,  such as a house ,  apartment ,  mobile home ,  houseboat or other 'substantial' structure .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily composed of snow ,  present throughout multiple years ,  in contact with an atmospheric column extending from the planetary boundary layer to the planet's exosphere with little to no physical obstruction .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily composed of snow or water ice ,  present throughout multiple years ,  in contact with an atmospheric column extending from the planetary boundary layer to the planet's exosphere with little to no physical obstruction .
a layer of loose ,  heterogeneous ,  superficial material covering solid rock .
a layer of igneous ,  sedimentary ,  and metamorphic rocks that forms continents and the areas of shallow seabed close to their shores ,  known as continental shelves .
oceanic crust is the uppermost layer of the oceanic portion of a tectonic plate .
the mohorovicic discontinuity ,  usually referred to as the moho ,  is the boundary between the earth's crust and the mantle ,  indicating a change in composition .
a lithified mass of rock that lies under the loose softer material  ( regolith )  at the surface of the earth or other terrestrial planet .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily composed of bedrock ,  desert pavement ,  scarp rock ,  talus ,  material exposed by slides ,  volcanic material ,  glacial debris ,  sand ,  material exposed during strip mining ,  gravel ,  and other accumulations of earthen material in contact with an atmospheric column extending from the planetary boundary layer to the planet's exosphere with little to no physical obstruction .
a temperature that inheres in some portion of air .
a hollow tower of ice formed by the freezing of steam escaping a fumarole .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of gaseous or aerosolised material held in shape by one or more environmental processes .
a cloud is a visible mass of aerosolised liquid droplets or frozen crystals suspended in an atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body .
polar stratospheric clouds are clouds which form in the winter polar stratosphere at altitudes of 15 , 00025 , 000 metres and which support chemical reactions that produce active chlorine and remove gaseous nitric acid ,  catalysing ozone destruction .
a settlement with a low density of buildings and inhabitants .
a settlement which has lower population density than a town ,  city ,  or other urban environment and is primarily used for agricultural or pastoral activity .
a settlement which has been established and is managed through officially sanctioned processes and is recognised as legal by a competent authority .
a settlement which is not associated with or directed by official planning processes and which typically lacks municipal services and infrastructure such as sanitation ,  water services ,  and waste management services .
a settlement on land that the inhabitants have a legal claim to .
a settlement on land that the inhabitants have no legal claim to or occupy illegally .
forest which originally covered a region before changes in the environment brought about by people .
a carbon emission process is any environmental process which releases carbon dioxide gas into the atmosphere .
a volume of carbon dioxide gas emitted by a carbon dioxide emission process .
a road which is usable across all seasons .
an area which is outside of a town ,  city ,  or urban area .
a village is a clustered human settlement or community ,  larger than a hamlet but smaller than a town ,  with a population ranging from a few hundred to a few thousand .
a lake which has nutrient - poor water .
a lake with medium nutrient levels ,  which allow moderate productivity .
an abiotic mesoscopic physical object which is primarily composed of plastic .
a cylindrical shaped pre - production plastic pellet used in manufacturing and packaging .
an environmental zone which contains ,  as determined by an officially mandated selection process ,  one or more ecosystems which include ,  as parts ,  ecological communities of global significance for conservation due to their vulnerability and irreplaceability .
the system of public works in a country ,  state or region ,  including roads ,  utility lines and public buildings .
a road which is publically accessible .
a building which is publically accessible .
a cable used to trasmit electricity from its point of production to its point of consumption .
a utility line which services the public power grid .
a populated place where groups of housing units have been constructed on land that the occupants have no legal claim to ,  or occupy illegally ,  or where dwellings are not in compliance with current planning and building regulations .
a planned process during which a portion of environmental material is removed from a material entity .
a fire is a process whereby rapid and exothermic oxidation of a material through a combustion process releases heat ,  light ,  and other products .
a conflagration which is uncontrolled and combusts material in a vegetated area ,  be it rural or wild .
a fire which occurs in a large spatial area poses a risk to human life ,  animal life ,  health ,  and / or property .
a portion of gas which is emitted by a fire or other exothermic reaction ,  is of increased temperature ,  and typically emits light in the visible range .
a flame which is produced by the combustion of hydrocarbon fuel .
a wildfire which occurs in a forest ,  primarily consuming vegetation as fuel .
a process whereby a large volume of gas moves due to a disequilibrium of physical forces .
a stream of plasma primarily composed of electrons ,  protons ,  and alpha particles ejected from the upper atmosphere of a star .
a process whereby a large volume of plasma moves due to a disequilibrium of physical forces .
a material entity which is composed of one or more chemical entities and has neither independent shape nor volume but tends to expand indefinitely .
a material entity which is composed of a volume of unbound positive and negative particles in roughly equal numbers ,  conducts electricity ,  and possesses internal magnetic fields .
an object which is naturally occuring ,  bound together by gravitational or electromagnetic forces ,  and surrounded by space .
a planet is an astronomical body orbiting a star or stellar remnant that is massive enough to be rounded by its own gravity ,  is not massive enough to cause thermonuclear fusion ,  and has cleared its neighbouring region of planetesimals .
an astronomical object which is composed primarily of luminous plasma held in a spherical form by gravitational forces .
an astronomical body which orbits a planet of comparatively greater mass .
an object which is composed of one or more gravitationally bound structures that are associated with a position in space .
a group of gravitationally bound stars .
an interstellar cloud of dust ,  hydrogen ,  helium and other ionized gases
a galaxy is a gravitationally bound system of stars ,  stellar remnants ,  interstellar gas ,  dust ,  and dark matter .
an astronomical body which is in direct orbit of a star and is massive enough for its own gravity to compress it into a shape preserved by hydrostatic equilibrium  ( usually a spheroid )  ,  but which shares its orbit with other bodies ,  such as asteroids or comets .
a minor planet is an astronomical object in direct orbit around the sun that is neither a planet nor exclusively classified as a comet .
an atmosphere which surrounds a planet .
a planetary atmosphere which is composted primarily of dinitrogen and dioxygen gas .
a desert surface covered with closely packed ,  interlocking angular or rounded rock fragments of pebble and cobble size .
a material part of an astronomical body .
an environmental material which is in a solid state .
an environmental material which is in a liquid state .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by a forest in which the majority of trees shed foliage simultaneously in response to seasonal change .
a biosphere is a part of an astronomical body which includes ,  as parts ,  all the living entities within the gravitational sphere of influence of that body ,  as well as the non - living and dead entities with which they interact .
a cryosphere is that part of a planet which is primarily composed of water is in solid form .
an astronomical body part which is composed of the combined mass of water found on ,  under ,  and over the surface of a planet .
an astronomical body part which is composed of soil ,  subject to soil formation processes ,  and found on the surface of a lithosphere .
an astronomical body part which is composed of those parts of a star ,  distal from the star's core ,  from which light is radiated into space .
a planetary part which is exposed ,  at least periodically ,  to light .
an astronomical body part which includes those parts of a biosphere that are ,  at least periodically ,  illuminated and in which photosynthesis may occur .
a lake from which water constantly flows out of under almost all climatic circumstances ,  maintaining low concentrations of dissolved solid relative to endorheic lakes .
overhanging eaves where the rafters and underside of the roof are visible from below .
eaves in which projecting roof members are not visible ,  being closed from view by boarding .
air which has increased levels of water vapour .
air which has a partial pressure of water vapour equal or near equal to its equilibrium vapor pressure at a given temperature .
a hydrological precipitation process in which atmospheric water vapour condenses to form droplets of liquid water massive enough to fall to a planetary surface due to the planet's gravity .
a droplet is a small column of liquid ,  bounded completely or almost completely by free surfaces which maintains its shape due to the surface tension of the liquid .
a droplet formed by condensation of vapour in an atmosphere and which is sufficiently massive to overcome atmospheric resistance and fall to a planetary surface due to gravity .
a droplet of water
a droplet which is spherical in shape and suspended in an atmosphere ,  being of too small a mass to be pulled to a planetary surface by gravity .
a cloud droplet composed primarily of water .
combustion or burning is a high - temperature exothermic redox chemical reaction between a fuel and an oxidant that produces oxidized ,  often gaseous products ,  in a mixture termed as smoke .
a chemical decomposition  ( the separation of a single chemical compound into its two or more elemental parts or to simpler compounds )  caused by heat .
a thermolysis process in which organic material is decomposed in the absence of oxygen .
a fog which is intermixed with smoke or other combustion products and their derivatives .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by a forest in which the majority of trees maintain their foliage despite seasonal change .
a visible mass of cloud water droplets or ice crystals suspended in the air at or near a planetary surface .
a solid material whose constituents ,  such as atoms ,  molecules or ions ,  are arranged in a highly ordered microscopic structure ,  forming a crystal lattice that extends in all directions .
a crystal which is primarily composed of water ice .
a type of water ice that forms on dead wood with the assistance of the fungus exidiopsis effusa and takes the shape of fine ,  silky hair .
a vegetated area which includes a community of flowering plants that provide food for local pollinators .
a flower strip which is present at the margins of cultivated fields .
a material which is primarily composed of a substance arranged as a lattice which can trap or contain other molecules .
a clathrate material in which a large amount of methane is trapped within a crystal structure of water ,  forming a solid similar to ice .
an environmental process in which coral expels the symbiotic algae living in its tissue as a result of stress ,  causing the coral to turn white .
marl is a mass of calcium carbonate derived from mollusk shells and mixed with silt and clay .
a marine coral reef biome which is located in a region with a tropical climate .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by a forest in which the trees are a mixture between those that lose and retain their foliage despite seasonal change .
a marginal sea biome which is located in a region with a temperate climate .
a marine biome which contains communities adapted to living in an environment determined by an upwelling process .
a marine upwelling biome which is subject to tropical climate patterns .
a marine upwelling biome which is located in a region subject to temperate climate patterns .
an area of a planet's surface which is partly covered by shrubs with ground - hugging stems or low growth habit ,  in contact with an atmospheric column extending from the planetary boundary layer to the planet's exosphere with little to no physical obstruction .
a turbulent surface layer of a water body maintained by strong currents setting over submerged ridges or shoals or by winds opposing a current .
a structure which is built into the container of a water body which allows water to flow out of the container when the volume of the water contained exceeds that of its cavity .
a site at the terminus of a liquid conveyance conduit where the liquid carried is discharged into the sea or a river .
an electric power system is a network of electrical components used to supply ,  transfer and use electric power .
a photovoltaic system is a power system designed to supply usable solar power by means of photovoltaics .
a group of solar panels ,  typically belonging to the same photovoltaic system ,  arranged to maximise interception of solar radiation .
a solar panel array that is integrated into the power system of a human dwelling .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by a shrubs ,  young trees ,  or stunted trees . .
a process in which a solid planetary surface is deformed .
a puddle is a small accumulation of water ,  on a surface .
ballast water is water contained in the ballast tanks of sea - going vessels .
a ballast tank is a compartment within a boat ,  ship or other floating structure that holds water ,  which is used as ballast to provide stability for a vessel .
hailfall is a hydrological process in which balls or irregular lumps of water ice formed in thunderstorm or cumulonimbus clouds fall to a planetary surface .
a precipitation process is a process in which a portion of some substance segregates from a material in which that substance or its precursors were dissolved or suspended in and settles due to a force such as gravity or centrifugal force .
a storm is an environmental process in which an environmental system and the processes it participates in are strongly perturbed by external forcings .
an atmospheric storm is a process in which a portion of an astronomical body's atmosphere is strongly perturbed from its prevaling weather .
an atmospheric storm which occurs in cumulonimbus clouds and during which lightning and thunder occur .
an atmospheric storm during which intense rainfall occurs .
an atmospheric storm which intense hailfall occurs .
an atmospheric storm during which intense snowfall occurs .
an atmospheric storm during which freezing rain falls and accumulates as ice on exposed surfaces .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by cultivated or anthropically maintained vegetation planted for recreation ,  erosion control ,  or aesthetic purposes interspersed by constructed or manufactured objects and materials .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by cultivated or anthropically maintained vegetation and by constructed or manufactured objects and materials covering up to approximately half its extent .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by constructed or manufactured objects and materials covering from half to three - forths of its extent and by cultivated or anthropically maintained vegetation .
an area of developed space used for high intensity purposes such as accommodating dense and multi - occupant residential ,  commercial ,  and industrial units .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by sedges or forbs ,  possibly interpersed with grasses or grass - like plants .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by gramanoid or herbaceous vegetation and which is not subject to intensive management by humans .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by fruticose or foliose lichens and which is in contact with an atmospheric column extending from the planetary boundary layer to the planet's exosphere with little to no physical obstruction .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by mosses and which is in contact with an atmospheric column extending from the planetary boundary layer to the planet's exosphere with little to no physical obstruction .
an area of a planet's surface which is partly covered by planted grasses ,  legumes ,  or mixtures of grass and legumes and used for livestock grazing or the production of seed or hay crops .
an area of a planet's surface which is partly covered either by annual crops and perennial woody crops or by actively tilled land .
an area of a planet's surface which is partly covered by forest or shrubland vegetation and where the underlying soil or substrate is periodically saturated with or covered by water .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by perennial herbaceous vegetation and where the underlying soil or substrate is periodically saturated with or covered by water .
a hydrological process in which irregular aggregates of snow fall to a planetary surface .
rainfall which occurs when the temperature of a planetary surface and its surrounding atmosphere are below the freezing point of water ,  resulting in supercooled raindrops which freeze upon impact with solid surfaces .
a process during which a sudden flow of electricity occurs ,  often accompanied by a visible release of photons ,  between two electrically charged objects due to contact ,  an electrical short ,  or dielectric breakdown .
a sudden electrostatic discharge which occurs during an electrical storm as differentially charged atmospheric entities equalise their charge .
a lightning process during which electrostatic discharge occurs between at least two clouds .
a lightning process during which electrostatic discharge occurs within a single cloud .
a lightning process during which electrostatic discharge occurs between a cloud and an object on a planetary surface ,  or a planetary surface itself .
a lightning process during which electrostatic discharge occurs within a single cloud or between multiple clouds .
a blizzard is a severe snowstorm during which snowfall is transported by strong winds ,  sustained for several hours .
a ground blizzard is a storm during which snow which has settled on a planetary surface is resuspended in and transported through its atmosphere by strong winds ,  sustained for several hours .
a lentic water body which is used for the artificial culture of shrimp .
a process during which humans rear animals or plants in bodies of water for harvest and consumption .
an archeological site which contains holes humans had dug in the ground ,  or their remnants ,  for the purpose of storing and distributing food ,  drink ,  and both functional or ritualistic implements during communal eating and drinking .
a river which is heated by geothermal processes such as heat exchange with lava or hydrothermal percolation .
a surface layer of a solid environmental material which is formed by the presence and activity of photosynthetic microbial assemblages colonising it .
a biocrust which is formed by photosynthetic microbial assemblages colonising the surface layer of a portion of arid soil .
an electronic telecommunications device that enables the customers of a financial institution to perform financial transactions ,  particularly cash withdrawal ,  without the need for a human cashier ,  clerk or bank teller .
a solid or liquid particle ,  usually 0 .2 micrometers in diameter ,  on which water vapour condenses ,  seeding cloud formation .
a process during which a solid particle or liquid droplet catalyses the condensation of water vapour in an atmosphere .
an environmental zone which overlaps a glacier or an ice sheet ,  and in which ice loss exceeds ice gain .
a material decumulation process during which the mass of an existing ice mass decreases in size .
a mass wasting process during which refuse from human activities ,  usually accumulated at a dumping site ,  falls down a slope under the force of gravity .
a process during which a part of an ice mass breaks away from the main mass .
an animal house which is only partially surrounded by a building envelope .
an ice loss process which occurs in the low - altitude area of a glacier or ice sheet below the firn layer .
a sublimation process during which water ice transitions into a gaseous state .
an animal house which has a complete building envelope .
a manufactured cage which may be used to confine ,  contain ,  or protect an animal .
a petting zoo is a zoological garden which contains domesticated non - human animals and some wild non - human animals that are docile enough for humans to touch and feed .
an artificial channel which transports unwanted water or waste liquids away from their source ,  either to a more useful area ,  a receptacle ,  or into sewers or stormwater mains as waste discharge to be released or processed .
a facility in which non - human animals are slaughtered and processed for human consumption .
a facility in which non - human animals are slaughtered and processed ,  but not for human consumption .
a building which is used to care for a human child during the working day by a person ,  outside the child's immediate family ,  other than that child's legal guardians .
a building in which fish are subject to a series of operations to prepare them for human consumption .
an ecosystem which bridges two or more adjoining ecosystems and through which organisms may move or propagate .
an ecological corridor through which organisms move during a migration process .
a building in which nursing aides and skilled nurses provide care and treatment to residents who have significant difficulty coping with the required activities of daily living .
a human house which serves as a long - term shelter for its inhabitants and within which they store personal property .
a building within which food and drink are prepared and served to customers in exchange for money or other goods and / or services .
a part of an ecosystem which may be or has been used for one or more overnight stays by humans sheltering in tents ,  camper vans ,  caravans ,  or improvised shelters .
a campground which has been modified by humans to provide and maintain facilities for camping such as fire pits ,  road access ,  latrines ,  and garbage bins .
a campground which has no pre - existing facilities installed or maintained by humans ,  usually found outside of anthropised ecosystems .
a manufactured product which may hold a volume of heated water suitable for one or more humans to bathe in ,  usually for the purposes of hydrotherapy or pleasure .
an open system in non - equilibrium with its environment that exhibits time translation symmetry breaking .
water which is partially contained within a fissure or a geological fracture .
regions of a planet which are not exposed to the planet's atmosphere or space ,  often comprising parts of one or more planetary structural layers .
a region which overlaps parts of one or more planetary structural layers which are located below a continental landmass .
a hill which has a surface that is partially or wholly covered by plant communities .
a piece of plastic which has a diameter less than five millimetres .
a microplastic particle which is the direct output of a manufacturing process .
a microplastic particle which is derived from the breakdown of larger plastic debris .
an envirommental system which bridges two or more biomes and which includes ecological communities which blend these biomes' phylogenetic and phenotypic compositions .
an ecotone which bridges a subpolar coniferous forest biome and a tundra biome .
a woodland which has an understory partially covered by lichen mats and tundra - like vegetation .
a material transformation process during which water ice is formed .
an environmental system in which minimal to no anthropisation has occurred and non - human agents are the primary determinants of the system's dynamics and composition .
a process during which a natural environmental system is altered by human action .
an ecotone which overlaps at least one biome which supports the growth and persistence of trees and at least one that does not .
a tree line ecotone across which trees cease to grow due to the low temperatures or duration of snow cover that occur at increased elevations above mean sea level .
a tree line ecotone across which trees cease to grow due to insufficient water availability due to a lack of water - based precipitation .
a tree line ecotone across which trees cease to grow due to insufficient water availability caused by exposure to increased solar radiation and a lack of rainfall .
a tree line ecotone which contains gaps in tree coverage due to decreased biodiversity in tree - forming plant species: gaps are above the alpine tree line for some species yet below the desert tree line for others ,  and no species with intermediate tolerances are present .
a planet that is composed primarily of silicate rocks or metals .
a planetary atmosphere which is formed as a result of the accretion of gaseous matter from the accretion disc of the planet's star .
a planetary atmosphere which has formed as a result of its planet's volcanic activity ,  or by accumulation of material from comet impacts .
a planetary atmosphere which has formed as a result of biotic processes modifying a secondary atmosphere .
a sedimentary rock which is primarily composed of the fossilized ,  siliceous remains of diatoms mixed with varying amounts of other clays and minerals .
a piece of rock which is primarily composed of diatomite: the fossilized ,  siliceous remains of diatoms mixed with varying amounts of other clays and minerals .
wastewater which is produced by industrial activity and which contains chemical contaminants other than those associated with urine and fecal matter .
a construction which is designed to hold water in which humans may swim or perform other leisure activities .
a constructed swimming pool which is owned by a non - governmental legal entity or a collective of such entities .
a constructed swimming pool which is owned by a governmental or state entity .
a hydraulic - engineering installation which transports water  -  in specified amounts ,  of a specified quality ,  and in accordance with a water - consumption plan  -  from a source of supply into a conduit .
a building which provides the site for food services with little or no waiting staff furnishing table service .
a food shop which sells a selection of food products that are not typical dietary components of the human population it is co - located with .
a truck which is equipped to cook and sell food .
a restaurant which provides prepared meals or other food products that the purchaser must eat off its premises .
a booth with an open window on one side .
a kiosk from which food products are sold .
a manufactured product which is designed to catch and hold animals .
an animal trap which consists of a container set flush with the ground such that animals moving along the ground may fall in and be available for examination or collection .
a pitfall trap in which a glass ,  plastic ,  or metal container devoid of accumulations of any liquid is used to contain any animal that falls inside .
a pitfall trap in which the container used to hold trapped animals is filled with a liquid solution formulated to hold ,  kill ,  and preserve any animal or animals which falls within it .
a channel of an intermittent stream which contains a river when water supply exceeds evapotranspiration and bed seepage .
a channel through which a directional flow of water periodically occurs ,  ceasing when bed seepage or evapotranspiration exceed the available water supply .
a process whereby a volume of liquid moves due to a disequilibrium of physical forces .
a process during which a volume of water is transported due to a disequilibria in physical forces .
a part of an astronomical body which includes ,  as parts ,  all the entities which have been constructed or manufactured by humans or their technology and which are within the gravitational sphere of influence of that body .
a food shop in which food products are the primary offer for sale or trade .
a part of an ecosystem which has been allocated to host a gathering of people for multiple entertainment or commercial activities .
a fairground which is used to exhibit agricultural technology ,  livestock ,  and farm - related activity .
a part of an ecosystem where people gather for the purchase and sale of provisions ,  livestock ,  and other goods .
a food shop in which the food products on offer are restricted to those produced in a region and cultural setting other than that of the shop's locality .
an exchangeable device which can be connected to a plumbing system to deliver and drain water .
a plumbing fixture which is bowl - shaped and used for washing hands ,  dishwashing ,  and other purposes .
a plumbing fixture which may serve as a container for water in which humans or other animals may bathe .
a plumbing fixture within which a human or other animal may bathe under a spray of water .
a planned process during which raw or recycled materials are transformed into products for use or sale using labour and machines ,  tools ,  chemical and biological processing ,  or formulation .
a manufacturing process which occurs on a planet .
a dry stream channel through which a river had flowed ,  but now contains no appreciable accumulations of water .
an process during which natural or manufactured materials and products are processed and arranged by humans or their technology into structures .
an environmental system which is determined by materials bearing roughly homogeneous qualities .
an environmental system within which an environmental material strongly influences the system's composition and properties .
an environmental system determined by the presence of a plant rhizosphere .
an environmental system which is determined by a living organism .
an environmental system determined by a green plant .
an environmental system determined by an animal .
underground water which is located in pore spaces found in rock or unconsolidated deposits such as soil ,  clay ,  or gravel .
a lunar rainbow is a rainbow produced by the refraction of light ,  which has been reflected from a moon's surface ,  by water droplets in an astronomical body's atmosphere .
a rainbow is a photometeor which consists of a spectral separation of light ,  formed as a result of the reflection ,  refraction ,  and dispersion of light in water droplets suspended in an astronomical body's atmosphere .
a solar rainbow is a rainbow produced by the refraction of light .
a meteor is any matter -  or energy - based entity which is located in the atmosphere of an astronomical body .
a meteor that is primarily composed of light .
a meteor which is primarily composed of water .
a photometeor which is formed as a result of sudden electrostatic discharge in the atmosphere .
a meteor which is primarily composed of rock .
a rainbow which forms from sunlight which has been reflected off a body of water prior to its interaction with water droplets in an atmosphere .
a solar rainbow which is formed by a narrow band of wavelengths ,  the rest of the spectrum having been scattered away by an atmosphere .
a rainbow which forms through the interaction of sunlight with the water droplets which constitute fog or clouds ;  light is diffracted by these droplets such that the photometeor appears almost white with faint reds on the sky - facing side and faint blues on the planet - facing side of the bow .
a photometeor which is formed by wave interference of light refracted within water droplets which constitute mist or clouds and consists of one or more concentric ,  successively dimmer rings ,  each of which has red wavelengths distant to the glory's centre and blue wavelengths towards the centre .
a photometeor which is produced by light that is reflected ,  refracted ,  and dispersed by ice crystals ,  capable of acting as prisms and mirrors ,  suspended in an astronomical body's atmosphere .
water which has a very high concentration of nutrients .
a lake which is composed primarily of water with very high nutrient concentrations .
a lake which is primarily composed of water with a concentration of dissolved salts greater than that of ocean water .
a lake which is composed primarily water with high concentrations of humic substances and organic acids ,  resulting in brown -  or tea - coloured colouration .
a lake which has formed as the result of processes that are not or are only minimally driven by human activity .
a process during which energy is emitted or transmitted in the form of waves or particles through space or a material medium .
a radiation process during which energy is transmitted or emitted by means of fast - moving subatomic particles .
a particle radiation process during which subatomic particles move in the same direction .
a radiation process during which waves  ( or their quanta ,  photons )  of the electromagnetic field propagate  ( radiate )  through space carrying electromagnetic energy .
a radiation process during which mechanical waves generated by oscillations radiate through an environmental material .
sediment which has its porespace filled by water which has very low levels of sodium chloride and / or other salts .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by feces .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a bodily secretion of a metazoan .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a substance produced by a plant .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a biofilm on the surface of a plant .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a digestive tract .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a biofilm on the surface of a animal .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a biofilm on the surface of a fungus .
sediment which has its porespace filled by water with increased levels of sodium chloride and other salts .
water which contains a slightly increased concentration of dissolved salts ,  relative to their concentration in freshwater .
water which contains a moderately increased concentration of dissolved salts ,  relative to their concentration in freshwater .
water which contains a highly increased concentration of dissolved salts ,  relative to their concentration in freshwater .
an environment which is determined by materials which bear significant concentrations of salts .
an environmental system determined by a fungal structure .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by sterile water .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by hypersaline water .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by soil .
a region which overlaps parts of one or more planetary structural layers which are located below an oceanic plate .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by the subsurface zone of a planet .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by those parts of a planetary subsurface zone which are not saline .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by sediment .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by sediment permeated by non - saline water .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by sediment permeated by saline water .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a biofilm on a surface which is exposed to non - saline materials .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by an aerosol .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a saline aerosol .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by an aerosol with a low concentration of dissolved solutes .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead animal ,  or a whole small animal .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a biofilm on a surface which is exposed to saline materials .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead plant ,  or a whole small plant .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead fungus .
a cell culture which is composed of a microbial community of known composition .
a cell culture which is composed of a single population of bacterial or archaeal cells .
a lake which is contained within a caldera .
a lake contained within a crater .
water which has an appreciable concentration of dissolved oxygen .
water which has low levels of dissolved oxygen .
a lake which is contained in a crater formed by a meteorite impact .
an impact event is a collision between astronomical bodies .
an impact event during which a meteoroid collides with another astronomical body .
an astronomical body which is composed of rocky or metallic materials and is considerably smaller than asteroids .
a material which is composed primarily of one or more pure metals and which shows their properties .
a lake which is contained in a crater formed by an impact event .
a crater which was formed as a result of the impact of one astronomical body on another .
a lake which is primarily composed of anoxic water .
a lake which has a hypolimnion composed primarily of anoxic water .
a lake which has a hypolimnion composed primarily of hypoxic water .
a lake which is primarily composed of hypoxic water .
a lake which is primarily composed of oxic water .
a lake which has a hypolimnion composed primarily of oxic water .
environmental variability which inheres in an astronomical body part or in outer space .
weather which inheres in an atmosphere .
weather which inheres in outer space .
a condition which inheres in an environmental system by virtue of that system undergoing variation in its composition ,  the distribution of the qualities its components bear ,  and / or in the processes which occur within it and which it participates in .
the disposition of an environmental system ,  particularly those influencing atmospheres ,  to manifest a cyclic pattern of weather over time .
a process during which water vapour condensing in the atmosphere aggregates into clouds .
a process during which microscopic solid or liquid objects are formed .
an aerosol formation process which occurs in an atmosphere .
a process during which an aerosol ,  consisting of solid particulates suspended in a gas ,  is formed in an atmosphere .
a process during which an aerosol ,  consisting of droplets of liquid suspended in gas ,  is formed in an atmosphere .
an aerosol which has non - gaseous parts that are primarily composed of liquid droplets .
an aerosol which has non - gaseous parts that are primarily composed of solid particles .
a process during which microscopic solid particulates are formed from gaseous materials in an atmosphere .
a process during which microscopic liquid droplets are formed from gaseous materials in an atmosphere .
a lake which is contained in a depression formed by the deformation and resulting lateral and vertical movements of a lithosphere .
a process during which pieces of a planetary crust and uppermost mantle move .
a process during which pieces of a planetary crust and uppermost mantle move towards one another .
a process during which pieces of a planetary crust and uppermost mantle move away from one another .
a process during which pieces of a planetary crust and uppermost mantle move along each other in a predominantly horizontal manner ,  either in a sinistral  ( left lateral )  or dextral  ( right lateral )  direction .
a part of a lithosphere which is separated by other such parts by geographic faults or similar geomorphological discontinuities .
a geomorphological feature which is formed where two or more tectonic plates move towards ,  away from ,  or along one another ,  resulting in deformation of the lithosphere .
a geomorphological feature which is formed where two or more tectonic plates are actively moving away from one another ,  resulting in deformation of the lithosphere that forms rifts or ridges .
a geomorphological feature which is formed where two or more tectonic plates are actively moving towards one another ,  resulting in deformation of the lithosphere that forces one plate below the other where it melts in the mantle .
a geomorphological feature which is formed where two or more tectonic plates are actively moving along one another in either a sinistral  ( left lateral )  or dextral  ( right lateral )  horizontal direction .
a convergent tectonic movement process during which one plate moves under another and is forced or sinks due to gravity into a mantle .
an organic material which is primarily composed of dead particulate matter .
a compound astronomical body part in which extensional tectonic processes occur and where the lithosphere is being pulled apart .
a lake which fills a basin that has been dammed by wind - blown sand ,   formed between sand dunes oriented by winds ;  or formed by wind action under previously arid paleoenvironments .
a lake which fills a depression where drainage is blocked by solid material transported by a landslide .
a lake which fills a depression where drainage is blocked by solid material transported by a rockslide .
a rockslide is a process whereby a large mass of rock moves down a hill or a mountainside .
a succession of swirling vortices caused by the unsteady separation of flow of a fluid around one or more blunt bodies .
an environmental system which includes both living and non - living components .
a channel which was formed as a result of an annelid burrowing through soil ,  where organic residues lining the burrow have subsequently initiated fossilization .
a process during which organic substances are replaced with mineral substrances ,  maintaining part of their anatomical organisation .
material which is primarily conposed of the vegetation present in tended pastures: mainly grasses ,  with an interspersion of legumes and other forbs .
a physical space ,  which may or may not be in a construction ,  which is used to store animal feed for agricultural purposes .
a physical space ,  which may or may not be in a construction ,  which is used to store animal manure for agricultural purposes .
manure which has been collected directly or indirectly from dairy cattle ,  as from flushing of manure from concrete feed lanes ,  free stalls ,  and milking facilities .
manure which is composed primarily of the feces of poultry .
manure which has been subjected to heat treatment for solidification and / or sterilization purposes .
manure which has been subjected to a natural process of 'rotting' or decomposition of its organic matter content by microorganisms under controlled conditions .
a product which is composed primarily of animal manure that has been heat treated and packaged as a product for commercial or consumer use .
organic material which is primarily composed of plant structures ,  living or dead .
a planet which is primarily composed of hydrogen and helium .
a gas planet which 1 )  is considerably smaller than a gas giant and 2 )  has a rocky core around which a thick envelope primarily composed of hydrogen ,  helium ,  and smaller proportions of volatiles .
a gas planet which has mass and size comparable to jupiter and saturn .
an ice is an environmental material which is either frozen or which is maintained in a solid state by gravitational forces or pressure .
an astrogeological volatile which is composed primarily of chemical compounds with freezing points above an approximate threshold of 100 kelvin .
a giant planet which is primarily composed of elements heavier than hydrogen and helium ,  volatile chemical compounds with freezing points above about 100 kelvin .
a gas planet which has an atmosphere composed of hydrogen and helium   -  probably with deep layers of ice ,  rock or liquid oceans  ( made of water ,  ammonia ,  a mixture of both ,  or heavier volatiles )   -  and a small core made of low - density volatiles .
an astronomical object which is more massive than the planet jupiter .
a process during which one or more entities move along geodesics in a region of spacetime that has been sufficiently curved towards an entity with sufficient mass and / or energy .
a giant gas planet which has a jovian - scale mass  ( 0 .3611 .8 jupiter masses )  ,  a short orbital period  ( 1 .3111 earth days )  ,  and which is close to the star it orbits ,  resulting in extreme and exotic atmospheric properties .
a gas planet which has a mass similar to that of neptune or uranus and which closely orbits its star  ( normally at a distance less than 1 astronomical unit )  .
a terrestrial exoplanet which is at least ten times the mass of earth .
a terrestrial planet which has a mass higher than earth's ,  but substantially below the masses of uranus and neptune  ( 15 and 17 earth masses ,  respectively )  .
a terrestrial planet which has a surface dominated by hot deserts .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by water ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of water .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by ice ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of ice .
ice which is primarily composed of carbon dioxide .
ice which is primarily composed of methane .
ice which is primarily composed of ammonia .
ice which is primarily composed of carbon monoxide .
a planet which in primarily composed of an iron - rich core with little to no mantle
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by lava ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of lava .
a terrestrial planet which has a mass smaller than earth's ,  such that 1 )  it lacks a magnetic field strong enough to shield its atmosphere from erosion by stellar wind and 2 )  it has comparatively short periods of geological activity unless it is subject to gravitational tidal forces from a much more massive object .
a planet which is formed as a result of a gas giant's hydrogen and helium atmosphere ,  as well as its outer layers ,  being stripped away by a stellar wind through photoevaporation and hydrodynamic escape .
a process during which energetic radiation ionises gas and causes it to disperse away from the ionising source .
a gas planet which has an atmosphere composed primarily of helium .
an astronomical body which 1 )  is held together by its own gravity ,  2 )   can attract other ,  similar bodies through mutual gravitational influence ,  and 3 )  has orbital dynamics that are not significantly affected by gas drag .
an astronomical object that forms within a protoplanetary disc when planetesimals and other solid debris aggregate and ,  due to gravitational forces ,   fuse and initiate internal melting to produce a differentiated interior .
an astronomical object which is composed of dense gas and dust rotating around a young newly formed star ,  a t tauri star ,  or a herbig ae / be star in a disk - shaped configuration .
a protoplanetary disk which is externally illuminated and undergoing photoevaporation .
a planet which is smaller than mercury but larger than ceres .
a planet which orbits two stars .
a material which is composed primarily of chemical elements and compounds with relatively low boiling points ,  equilibrium condensation temperatures below 1300 kelvin ,  and which are part of the crust or atmosphere of a moon or planet .
an astrogeological volatile which is composed primarily of chemical compounds with boiling points around those of hydrogen and helium .
a material which is composed primarily of chemical elements and compounds which have equilibrium condensation temperatures above approximately 1300 kelvin and which are part of the crust or atmosphere of a moon or planet .
a process during which gases that constitute a planetary atmosphere escape that planet's gravitational field and move away into outer space .
an atmospheric escape process during which atoms that are parts of a planetary atmosphere escape into outer space through numerous collisions with lighter atoms in that atmosphere .
a cloud which is cirriform and is formed by condensation events centred on an aircraft's contrail .
a cloud which is fibrous and / or has a silky sheen ,  often present in aggregates where individual cirrus clouds are organised in patches or narrow bands of white or mostly white detached filmanents .
obsolete a cloud which
an iucn protected area in which human visitation ,  use and impacts are strictly controlled and limited to ensure protection and conservation of natural biodiversity and / or geodiversity ,  natural ecosystem assemblages and processes ,  and any associated cultural and spiritual values .
an iucn protected area which 1 )  is dominated by natural ecosystems ,  2 )  is sufficiently large to allow those ecosystems to function and develop without local anthropogenic perturbation ,  3 )  is  managed to prevent perturbations by proximate or local anthropisation ,  including those caused by local and / or indigenous human communities or human visitation .
a quality which inheres in a astronomical body or astronomical body part by virtue of the variation in its material composition ,  participation in geological processes ,  and the variation in is land -  and hydroforms .
an iucn protected area which includes a primarily natural formation designated to be of high natural heritage value and the environmental systems which it determines  ( e .g .
an iucn protected area within which the habitats of or ecosystems used by floral and faunal species deemed to be of international ,  national ,  or local importance are maintained ,  conserved ,  or restored such that their composition and functional integrity are maintained .
an ecosystem which has been causally isolated from a larger ecosystem within which it was previously embedded ,  such that the direct exchange of materials ,  resources ,  and energy between these systems is severely or entirely curtailed .
a process during which one or more parts of an ecosystem become causally isolated such that the direct flow or exchange of materials ,  resources ,  and energy between a given fragment and the remainder of the original system is severely curtailed or entirely halted .
a protected area in which management objectives have been declared ,  by a local governing body or authority ,  to adhere to the guidelines set forth by the international union for the conservation of nature  ( iucn )  .
a process during which an ecosystem ,  its parts ,  or the processes it participates in are modified by human intervention to accomplish an objective .
an active management process which has the conservation of an ecosystem ,  or a part thereof ,  as its primary objective .
an iucn protected area which 1 )  includes entities that have been deemed to be of high scenic quality ,  2 )  is composed of a historically stable assemblage of causally interlinked natural and anthropised ecosystems that provides cultural ecosystem services ,  and 3 )  hosts traditional and sustainable human activities .
a site which is bounded or relativised by a material entity which is of spiritual significance to one or more human groups .
a process during which an ecosystem fragment loses its system integrity ,  with many of its resident ecological populations 1 )  losing their habitats ,  2 )  undergoing a loss of functional and phylogenetic diversity ,  and 3 )  undergoing a subsequent genetic destabilisation through inbreeding .
an ecosystem fragmentation process during which discontinuities emerge in the habitats of one or more ecological populations .
an environment which has its properties and composition largely determined by the presence of a metazoan which lacks a vetebral column and which has a habitat that is found in an aquatic environmental system .
land which is regularly manipulated by human activities ,  such as plowing or tilling ,  in order to grow crops .
land which hosts a community of herbaceous plants  -  such as grasses and forbs  -  upon which animals may graze .
an environmental system determined by a cnidarian or part of a cnidarian .
an environment which has its properties and composition determined by a portion of bondon cheese .
a surface layer which is composed of the external surface of a root ,  together with closely adhering soil particles and debris
pasturable land which is maintained by human activities in order to provide grazing oppoturnities for livestock .
land which either hosts plant communities upon which animals may graze has been manipulated by tilling ,  ploughing ,  or other human activity for the purposes of seed sowing or planting crops .
a quality inhereing in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being periodically and mechanically manipulated to loosen and mix any soil which it has as a part .
soil which has increased levels of molecules or ions capable of donating a hydron  ( proton or hydrogen ion )  to other chemical entities ,  or ,  alternatively ,  capable of forming covalent bonds with other chemicals via the acceptance of an electron pair ,  resulting in a bulk ph measurement of less than 7 .
volcanic ash which has increased levels of molecules or ions capable of donating a hydron  ( proton or hydrogen ion )  to other chemical entities ,  or ,  alternatively ,  capable of forming covalent bonds with other chemicals via the acceptance of an electron pair ,  resulting in a bulk ph measurement of less than 7 .
a digestive tract environment which has its properties and dynamics determined by the digestive tract of an echinoderm from the class holothuroidea .
a bodily fluid which is present in the digestive tract of a member of the holothuroidea .
sea ice which has a brown colouration ,  either due to 1 )  the presence of pigments which are or were contained in the members of ecological assemblages ,  such as algal communities ,  living or trapped within the ice or 2 )  due to the presence of trapped sediments .
the surface layer of a volume of water .
the surface layer of a mass of sediment .
a site in which charged particles are influenced by an astronomical body's magnetic field .
an environmental disposition which inheres in an entity that intercepts ,  attenuates ,  or blocks radiation .
a radiation shielding disposition which inheres in a material or immaterial entity which attenuates or blocks cosmic rays .
a magnetosphere which either 1 )  cannot withstand the pressure of the stellar wind interacting with it ,  thus allowing the stellar wind to interact with the ionosphere ,  atmosphere ,  or surface of the planet generating it or 2 )  is formed by the interaction of the stellar wind with an astronomical body unshielded by its own magnetosphere .
a magnetosphere which shields the body generating it from the stellar wind by withstanding the stellar wind's pressure before it reaches the body .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a land mass or the atmosphere or space adjacent to it .
a terrestrial zone which is bounded by constructed ,  manufactured ,  or other anthropogenic material entities .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a marine environment .
soil or sediment which has been eroded and influenced by flowing water and redeposited in a non - marine setting .
sediment which has been transported by flowing water and redeposited in a non - marine setting .
a rock which is formed as a result of the lithification of alluvium .
a process during which sediments compact under pressure ,  expel connate fluids ,  and gradually become solid sedimentary rock .
an ecosystem in which grasses  ( graminae )  are the dominant form of vegetation and determine the system's structure and dynamics .
an area of land used for the herding and grazing of livestock .
an area of wetland which overlaps a swamp ecosystem .
a terrestrial ecosystem which is inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support ,  and that under normal circumstances does support ,  a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions .
a planned process during which an environmental system is modified to mitigate or nullify the impacts of flooding .
an electromagnetic radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star at wavelengths and frequencies which travel exclusively in a line - of - sight fashion and which may produce molecular rotation and torsion on contact with matter .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star at wavelengths ranging from millimetre to kilometer scales .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star when molecules change their rotational - vibrational movements ,  usually at wavelengths between 760 nm and 1 mm .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star at wavelengths between 380 nm and 760 nm .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star at wavelengths between 10 nm and 400 nm .
a stellar radiation process during which penetrating electromagnetic radiation is emitted by high - energy electrons as they fall into a lower state of energy .
a stellar radiation process during which penetrating electromagnetic radiation is emitted from the radioactive decay  ( gamma decay )  of atomic nuclei .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star with sufficient energy to disrupt molecular bonds or alter the electron number of atoms .
a process during which liquid water accumulates in a site ,  most often in some form of container .
a commercial building which contains parts used as workplaces primarily for administrative and managerial workers .
a building which is primarily used to facilitate the buying or selling of goods or services .
a process during which wood is processed into beams or planks .
a building part within which administrative work is done by an organisations users in order to support and realise the objectives of that organization .
an iucn protected area within which 1 )  natural ecosystems and their resources are either conserved or used through non - industrial human activities ,  2 )  usage activites contribute to conservation goals ,  ensuring inter - generational security for local communities' livelihoods ,  and 3 )  the majority of benefits derived from the use of ecosystems are received by communities living near or in the area .
a natural environment which is located on a land mass .
a natural environment which is within a water body .
a site in which the attraction of satellites by gravitation is dominated by an astronomical body ,  bounded by a zero - velocity surface .
a site in which the combined gravitational pull of the two large astronomical bodies is such that a smaller body ,  affected only by gravity ,  can maintain a stable position relative to those two large bodies and orbit with them due to centripetal force .
a marginal sea biome which is located in a region with a tropical climate .
organic material which is in a solid phase and contained in sedimentary rock .
kerogen which cotains alginite ,  amorphous organic matter ,  cyanobacteria ,  freshwater algae ,  and land plant resins ,  thus having a hydrogen to carbon ratio above 1 .25 ,  and oxygen to carbon ratio below 0 .15 ,  readily produces liquid hydrocarbons ,  has reduced concentrations of aromatic structures ,  and primarily derived from proteins and lipids .
kerogen from which heavy hydrocarbons  ( such as oils )  are derived following chemical break down .
kerogen from which light hydrocarbons  ( such as hydrocarbon gases )  are derived following chemical break down .
kerogen which is enriched in sulfur compounds ,  has a hydrogen to carbon ratio under 1 .25 ,  an oxygen to carbon ratio between 0 .03 and 0 .18 ,  derives into mixtures of hydrocarbon gas and oil ,  and derives from marine organic materials  ( primarily lipids )  which are formed in reducing environments .
planktonic kerogen which has high concentrations of sulfur compounds .
kerogen which derives from land plants ,  resembles wood or coral in structure ,  has a hydrogen to carbon ratio under 1 ,  an oxygen to carbon ratio between 0 .03 to 0 .3 ,  and which primarily produces coal or hydrocarbon gas on degradation .
kerogen which has a hydrogen to carbon ratio less than  0 .5 and primarily composed of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons .
a canopy which is part of a woodland ecosystem .
a canopy which is composed of the aboveground portion ,  or crowns ,  of a community of crop plants .
a vegetation layer which is formed by a collection of individual plant crowns ,  themselves constituting part of the aboveground portion of a plant community .
an ecosystem which is determined by communities of plants with a tree growth form and in which members of those communities form continuous or discontinuous regions of canopy cover .
an ecosystem which 1 )  is determined by communities of annual crops ,  perennial woody crops ,  or by actively tilled land ,  2 )  is primarily used for agricultural activity ,  and 3 )  contains no village or larger human settlement .
an ecosystem which is determined by communities of plants with a tree growth form and in which members of those communities are spaced sufficiently far apart to allow sunlight to illuminate the understory .
a process during which humans rear animals or plants on land for harvest and consumption .
an agricultural process during which humans rear plants on land for harvest and consumption .
an agricultural process during which humans rear animals on land for harvest and consumption .
an aquaculture process during which humans rear crustaceans .
an aquaculture process during which humans rear finfish .
an aquaculture process during which humans rear molluscs .
an aquaculture process during which humans rear seaweed .
an aquaculture process during which humans rear freshwater macrophytes .
an aquaculture process during which humans rear animals .
an aquaculture process during which humans rear plants .
a shrimp pond which is embedded in a coastal water body .
saline water which is derived from sea water and used during the cultivation of crustaceans .
a fog which is composed of liquid aerosols and gases derived from volcanic gas emissions  ( primarily sulfur oxides )  ,  formed when sulfur - bearing gases react with sunlight ,  oxygen ,  and moisture in an atmosphere .
a process during which materials deemed to be waste are removed from a site and transported to another site designated for its storage .
a process during which materials deemed to be waste are transported away from a site .
a waste disposal process during which the feces of human children is transported to a designated storage site .
a process during which materials used in a household and deemed to be waste are removed from the housing unit and transported to another site designated for its storage .
a site which has been designated as a place where humans may defecate .
a site which has been designated for the storage of waste material .
an environmental pollution process during which the temperature of an environmental system ,  or parts thereof ,  is raised above its natural levels .
a thermal pollution process which occurs in a water body or aquatic environment .
water which accumulates on a solid surface during precipitation events and snow / ice melt .
stormwater which accumulates in an urban ecosystem .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by constructed or manufactured objects and materials ,  possibly interspersed with cultivated or anthropically maintained vegetation .
stormwater which accumulates in a rural ecosystem .
a surface layer through which liquids or gases cannot pass .
a construction which comprises a durable surface layer overlying a solid surface intended to sustain vehicular or foot traffic .
a layer which is primarily composed of some liquid material .
a layer throughout which one or more qualities  ( e .g .
a layer which is primarily composed of some solid material ,  allowing for non - solid parts such as interstitial pockets of gas or liquid .
a solid layer which is primarily composed of some water - based ice .
a road which is primarily composed of asphalt .
a road which is primarily composed of concrete .
a constructed pavement which is built on the side of a road and intended for foot traffic .
a road which is used for local access to one or more structures ,  and is privately owned and maintained by an individual or group .
a constructed pavement which is used for parking vehicles .
dust which is composed primarily of slicon dioxide .
dust which is primarily composed of aluminium particles .
dust which is primarily composed of barium particles .
dust which is primarily composed of hydrated magnesium silicate  ( talc )  particles .
dust which is primarily composed of slate particles .
a fire which occurs in an industrial area or building .
dust which is primarily composed of kaolinite particles .
a land fire which consumes low - growing plants such as scrub and brush .
a land fire which occurs in a large uncleared or sparsely settled area  ( as in australia )  usually scrub - covered or forested .
a fire which occurs in a pastureland .
a fire which occurs on land ,  typically consuming a terrestrial ecosystem as fuel .
a vegetated area which has not been cleared or is sparsely settled ,  usually scrub - covered or forested
an atmospheric storm which is generated by the heating and convection of moist and unstable air masses .
a warm - core cyclone which occurs in the middle and high latitudes ,  primarily drawing energy from horizontal temperature contrasts between atmospheric fronts .
a an atmospheric storm which originates over tropical or subtropical waters and possesses a warm - core ,  non - frontal synoptic - scale cyclone with a low pressure centre ,  spiral rain bands and strong winds .
an atmospheric storm during which a large mass of atmospheric gas rotates around a centre of low atmospheric pressure ,  generating high winds which spiral towards that centre .
a cyclone which rotates around an area low atmospheric pressure with increased temperature .
an environmental zone which is part of an atmosphere .
an atmospheric zone in which atmospheric gaseous masses have reduced atmospheric pressure .
a layer of liquid that is part of an estuary .
a layer of estuarine water which extends a few centimeters from the surface of the water column towards the estuary bed and from the shore to a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters .
a role which is may be realised by an environmental system
an oasis is a vegetated area located in a desert ,  supplied with water from a water source which it surrounds ,  and surrounded by arid soil ,  sand ,  or rock .
a vegetated area is a geographic feature which has ground cover dominated by plant communities .
an environment which is determined by a bone element .
a geographic feature which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid water held in shape or sustained by an environmental process .
a liquid surface layer which is in contact with air .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of some liquid .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of solid environmental material .
a layer of estuarine water which extends from the surface of the water column to the pycnocline or mid - depth and from the shore to a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters .
a pycnocline which is part of an estuarine water body ,  spanning from the shore to a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters .
a layer of estuarine water which extends from an estuarine pycnocline or mid - depth to the estuarine bed and from the shore to a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters .
a layer of estuarine water which extends a few centimeters from the surface of the water column towards the estuary bed and from a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters until the end of the estuary most distal from the coast .
a layer of estuarine water which extends from the surface of the water column to the pycnocline or mid - depth and from a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters until the end of the estuary most distal from the coast .
a layer of fresh estuarine water which extends a few centimeters from the surface of the water column towards the estuary bed and from the land - water interface to a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters .
a layer of fresh estuarine water which extends from the surface of the water column to the pycnocline or mid - depth and from the land - water interface to a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters .
a body of water which is primarily composed of saline water .
a body of water which is primarily composed of freshwater ,  with low solute content .
a body of water which is primarily composed of brackish water .
a layer of estuarine water which extends from an estuarine pycnocline or mid - depth to the estuary bed and from a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters to end of the estuary most distal from the coast .
a pycnocline which is part of an estuarine water body ,  spanning from a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters until the end of the estuary most distal from the coast .
an estuarine coastal pycnocline which is composed primarily of fresh tidal water .
a layer of fresh estuarine water which extends from an estuarine pycnocline or mid - depth to the estuarine bed and from the land - water interface to a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters .
a layer of fresh ,  tidal estuarine water which extends a few centimeters from the surface of the water column towards the estuary bed and from a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters until the end of the estuary most distal from the coast .
a layer of fresh ,  tidal estuarine water which extends from the surface of the water column to the pycnocline or mid - depth and from a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters until the end of the estuary most distal from the coast .
an estuarine open water pycnocline which is composed primarily of fresh tidal water .
a layer of fresh estuarine water which extends from an estuarine pycnocline or mid - depth to the estuary bed and from a fiat boundary where the estuary bed below the water column reaches a depth of 4 meters to end of the estuary most distal from the coast .
a biogeochemical cycle which has nitrogen - bearing chemical entities as participants .
a biogeochemical cycle which has sulfur - bearing chemical entities as participants .
a biogeochemical cycle which has phosphorous - bearing chemical entities as participants .
a tidal flow process which occurs in an ocean or sea and during which tidal movements generate advective flows ,  often amplified in velocity when moving through an inlet ,  pass or channel .
a material transport process during which a volume of material is displaced due to a disequilibrium in physical forces and during which 1 )  the qualities that inhere in that volume and 2 )  the processes that are unfolding within it are largely unchanged .
an ice mass which is attached to a bed underneath a body of water .
a marine current which is maintained by a tidal flow process .
anchor ice which is attached to a riverbed .
a marine zone in which ocean waters undergo a diurnal  ( once per day )  tidal oscillation  -  with one high and one low tide per day  -  due to the supression of a second daily oscillation by the geometry of the ocean basin and obstructions presented by land masses .
a tidal flow process which occurs once per day in ocean waters where a second daily oscillation is blocked by land masses or ocean basin geometry .
a marine tidal flow zone in which ocean waters undergo a semi - diurnal  ( twice per day )  tidal oscillation  -  with two high and two low tides per day of roughly equal amplitude .
an environmental zone in which varying gravitational forces from astronomical bodies ,  combined with the rotation of the astronomical body containing the zone ,  cause marine waters to undergo periodic depth oscillations  ( tides )  .
a water flow process during which movements of water masses caused by varying gravitational and rotational forces from astronomical bodies ,  combined with the rotation of the astronomical body containing the water mass ,  cause waters to undergo periodic depth oscillations  ( tides )  .
a marine tidal flow process which occurs twice per day ,  resulting in two high and two low tides per day ,  both of roughly equal amplitude .
anchor ice which is attached to a riverbed where a river flows into a marine water body and which is formed by the freezing of freshwater seeping out of the riverbed's sediments .
an ice mass which is suspended in a water body ,  being sufficiently buoyant for part of the mass to breach the surface of that water body .
an action of exogenic processes  ( such as water flow or wind )  which remove environmental material from one location on the surface of an astronomical body ,  transporting it to another location where it is deposited .
a zone on a glacier which is roughly linear and where the rates of ice ablation and accumulation are approximately equal .
a zone in which the deposition and accumulation of an environmental material occurs .
a zone in which processes resulting in the removal of one or more environmental materials have higher rates than pocesses which result in their deposition and accumulation .
a material accumulation zone in which the rates of ice formation processes exceed those of ice decumulation processes ,  leading to a net icrease in some mass of ice .
a material decumulation zone in which the rates of ice formation processes are below those of ice decumulation processes ,  leading to a net decrease in some mass of ice .
an ice accumulation zone which overlaps part of a glacier .
an environmental zone in which the rates of two or more processes are roughly equal to one another .
a glacier which is contained in the site bounded by a volcanic crater .
the site which is located in a crater .
the site which is located in a volcanic crater .
a landform which has been rendered barren or partially barren by environmental extremes ,  especially by low rainfall .
a climate which is realised through hydrological processes .
an aerosol formation event  which occurs in an atmosphere .
an alpine tundra ecosystem which exists above the continuous timberline but below the permanent snowline on elevated land in tropical regions .
a direction which inheres in an atmospheric wind ,  typically expressed as the inverse of the direction the wind is moving in .
the speed of an atmospheric wind .
the volume of water which has fallen during a precipitation process .
a system which consists of an atmosphere ,  hydrosphere ,  cryosphere ,  land surface ,  and  biosphere ,  forced or influenced by external processes .
a process during which gas - phase molecules form solid or liquid particles that are stable enough to continue growing in size  -  via the condensation or aggregation of other gas - phase molecules  -  at a greater rate than their constituents re - enter gas phase .
a process during which particles suspended in a gaseous medium are formed .
a material transport process during which solid or liquid particles are directly introduced into a volume of gas .
an aerosol formation process during which solid or liquid particles are either 1 )  formed in a volume of gas through gas - to - liquid or gas - to - solid conversions or 2 )  increase in size through aggregation with other particles .
a shrubland biome which is densely vegetated by dwarf or short mangroves  ( and associates )  that are generally less than 6 meters in height ,  is tidally influenced ,   is located in tropical or subtropical areas .
an ecosystem which 1 )  typically has monthly average temperatures below 10 degrees celsius 2 )  has a low evapotranspiration ratio 3 )  is dominated by treeless terrain ,  covered by communities of low - growing vegetation such as dwarf shrubs ,  sedges and grasses ,  mosses ,  and lichens ,  4 )  contains areas of soil underlain by permafrost with a thin active layer and 5 )  occurs in both polar and alpine regions  ( i .e . ,  both high latitudes and high altitudes )  ,  and 5 )  does not have permanent snow or ice cover .
a tundra ecosystem which exists at high altitudes and where vegetation is stunted due to low temperatures and high winds .
an aerosol formation process during which the rate of particle formation exceeds that which is normally present in the site of its occurrence .
a secondary aerosol formation process which occurs in an atmosphere at an increased rate relative to background processes of the same kind .
a physical quality which inheres in a marine water body by virtue of the height ,  wavelength ,  period ,  and directional energy flux of its waves which evolve into swell through nonlinear dynamics .
a variability quality which inheres in sea ice ,  particularly in its concentration ,  area and extent ,  type ,  motion ,  deformation ,  age ,  thickness ,  and volume .
a marine bed which is covered by animals which have benthic habitats ,  including attached ,  clinging ,  sessile ,  infaunal ,  burrowing ,  laying ,  interstitial ,  and slow - moving animals ,  but not animals that have created substrate .
a elevation quality which inheres in a marine water body by virtue of the position of that water body's surface layer  ( adjacent to an atmosphere )  relative to some reference elevation .
a bed which underlies a marine water body .
a marine faunal bed which is dominated by mussels of the mytilus or modiolus genera either 1 )  resting on the sediment surface ,  2 )   partially embedded in the sediment ,  3 )  attached to conspecifics  ( by using their byssal threads )  ,  or 4 )  attached to a piece of gravel in slightly gravelly fine sediments .
a marine reef which is located on a shelf  ( i .e .
a marine reef which is present in the depths beyond  ( offshore relative to )  the continental shelf and primarily composed of self - adhered or conglomerated mussel shells .
an area which is dominated by dense accumulations of mussels attached to a substrate other than conspecifics ,  including the associated faunal communities and predators present on the mussels  ( e .g . ,  starfish )  .
an area which is dominated by dense accumulations of mussels ,  of the genus modiolus ,  attached to a substrate other than conspecifics ,  including the associated faunal communities and predators present on the mussels  ( e .g . ,  starfish )  .
an environmental zone within which ecological communities of  animals are attached to some substrate .
an oceanic mussel reef which is primarily settled by mussels of the genus bathymodiolus and primarily composed of self - adhered or conglomerated mussel shells
a marine reef which is primarily composed of self - adhered or conglomerated mussel shells .
an oceanic mussel reef which is primarily settled by mussels of the genus bathymodiolus and primarily composed of self - adhered or conglomerated mussel shells
a mussel bed which is located in benthic regions beyond  ( offshore to )  a continental shelf .
a mussel bed which is located in benthic regions that are part of a continental shelf .
an oceanic mussel bed which has mussel communities dominated by members of the genus bathymodiolus .
biomass which is composed primarily of dead organisms ,  their parts ,  or their organic derivatives .
clay which is part of an abyssal plain .
a soil which has high mineral content and which contain no calcareous material ,  have less than 10% weatherable minerals its surface layer ,  and have less than 35% base saturation throughout its volume .
a primary aerosol formation process during which dust particles are suspended in a gaseous medium .
a process during which dust is aerosolised in an atmosphere .
an aeroform which is formed as a result of strong upper winds spreading a cirrus homogenitus cloud in the atmosphere and ,  in turn ,  causing internal tranformations which result in the cloud taking on the appearnce of natural cirri - form clouds .
an environmental process during which a haze is formed by the aerosolisation of solid particles ,  including natural materials and anthropogenic pollutants ,  in an atmosphere .
an aersolised mass of dust ,  smoke ,  or other dry particulates which scatters visible light thus obsscuring visibility through an atmosphere .
a haze formation process which has an increased rate relative to that which is usually present in a given site .
an ecosystem which is of larger scale than an ecoregion and which includes smaller ecosystems determined by the presence of ecological assemblages that have at least some cohesion over evolutionary time frames .
an anthropogenic environment which is bounded by the building envelope of a laboratory and in which a system of manufactured products exert control on one or more of its environmental conditions .
a research facility in which systems of manufactured products control internal conditions and in which scientific or technological research ,  experiments ,  and measurement may be performed .
a cloud which is organised as a thin ,  white patch ,  sheet or layer without shading and is composed of very small ,  regularly arranged ,  merged or separated structural elements such as grains and ripples .
a cloud which is organised as a transparent ,  whitish veil of fibrous  ( hair - like )  or smooth appearance and which often producing halo phenomena when scattering visible range stellar radiation .
a cloud which is 1 )  white ,  grey ,  or both white and grey ,  2 )  organised as a patch ,  sheet ,  or layer often with shading ,  3 )  composed of laminae  ( a layer or layers )  ,  rounded masses ,  or rolls ,  which are sometimes partly fibrous or diffuse and which may or may not be merged .
a cloud which is 1 )  greyish or bluish in colour ,  2 )  organised as a sheet or layer of striated  ( grooves or channels in cloud formations ,  arranged parallel to the flow of the air )  ,  fibrous or uniform appearance ,  and 3 )  having parts thin enough to reveal the local star ,  at least vaguely ,  as through ground glass or frosted glass .
a cloud which is 1 )  grey ,  often dark grey in colour ,  2 )  organised as a layer ,  3 )  diffused by more or less continuously falling rain or snow ,  which in most cases reaches the ground ,  and 3 )  thick enough throughout to blot out the appearance of the local star .
a cloud which is 1 )  grey or whitish ,  or both grey and whitish in colour ,  2 )  structurally organised as a patch ,  sheet or layer that a )  almost always has dark parts and b )  is composed of non - fibrous tessellations ,  rounded masses ,  rolls ,  and similar structural elements and which may or may not be merged .
a cloud which is 1 )  generally grey in colour ,  2 )  structurally organised as a layer  with a fairly uniform base or ,  less frequently ,  ragged patches ,  3 )  disposed to produce drizzle ,  snow or snow grains as preciptation ,  4 )  only produces halo phenomena at very low temperatures ,  and 5 )  allows a clearly visible outline of the local star to be seen through its mass .
a cloud which
a cloud which is formed by condensation events triggered by some anthropogenic processes or the outputs thereof ,  such as aircraft contrails or emissions from chimneys .
a mining process during which materials are extracted from benthic environments deep below the ocean surface ,  where no stellar radiation reaches . .
a cloud which develop locally over forests as a result of increased humidity due to evaporation and evapotranspiration from the tree canopy .
a cirrus cloud which occurs as a detached unit or a thin veil and consists of nearly straight or irregularly curved filaments that do not terminate in hooks or tufts .
a cloud which 1 )  is heavy and dense ,  2 )  has a considerable vertical extent ,  3 )  has the form of a mountain or one or more huge towers ,  3 )   is usually smooth ,  fibrous or striated ,  and nearly always flattened across part of its upper portion ,  which often spreads out in the shape of an anvil or vast plume ,  4 )   has a very dark base which may be merged with low ragged clouds which frequently form undernead this could ,  and 5 )  is frequenly associated with precipitation ,  sometimes in the form of virga .
a mining process during which materials are extracted from the surface ,  or below the surface ,  of the ocean floor .
a cirrus cloud which does not have grey parts and which is often shaped like a comma ,  terminating at its highest point in a hook ,  or in a tuft ,  the upper part of which is not in the form of a rounded protuberance .
a cirrus cloud which 1 )  is structurally organised in patches ,  2 )  is sufficiently dense to appear greyish when viewed towards the local star and 3 )  may veil ,  the local star ,  obscure its outline ,  or even hide it entirely .
a cirrostratus cloud which occurs as a detached unit or a thin veil and consists of nearly straight or irregularly curved filaments that do not terminate in hooks or tufts .
a stratocumulus cloud which 1 )  has linearly arranged cumuliform protuberances which resemble crenellated turrets or towers ,  some of which are taller than they are wide in some portion of their upper parts ,  2 )  possess a lower region or base which connects these protuberances .
a cirrus cloud which 1 )  has linearly arranged cumuliform protuberances which resemble crenellated turrets or towers ,  some of which are taller than they are wide in some portion of their upper parts ,  2 )  possess a lower region or base which connects these protuberances .
a cirrocumulus cloud which 1 )  has linearly arranged cumuliform protuberances which resemble crenellated turrets or towers ,  some of which are taller than they are wide in some portion of their upper parts ,  2 )  possess a lower region or base which connects these protuberances .
an altocumulus cloud which 1 )  has linearly arranged cumuliform protuberances which resemble crenellated turrets or towers ,  some of which are taller than they are wide in some portion of their upper parts ,  2 )  possess a lower region or base which connects these protuberances .
a cloud which is primarily composed of water - based aerosols .
an anthropisation process during which terrestrial environments  -  natural or anthropised  -  or parts thereof are altered to facilitate human activities such as agriculture ,  settlement ,  or commerce .
a land conversion process during which terrestrial ecosystems are altered to facilitate agricultural activities such as crop cultivation or the rearing of livestock .
an anthropogenic environmental process which includes all human activities undertaken in a natural ,  semi - natural ,  or anthropised environment .
a land use process during which humans access and manage forest ecosystems for 1 )  the provisioning of wood ,  forages ,  water ,  wildlife ,  and recreation as well as a broad range of other ecosystem services or 2 )  the maintenance of the forest ecosystem's health .
a land use process during which materials of economic value are extracted from a planet ,  usually from an orebody ,  lode ,  vein ,  seam ,  reef or placer deposit .
a process during which an ecosystem  -  natural or anthropised  -  is changed by the actions of humans .
deforestation which is planned and executed by humans .
a planned process during which humans access and obtain resources ,  benefits ,  or services from a natural or anthropised ecosystem .
a planned environmental usage process during which a non - renewable resource such as petroleum ,  natural gas ,  or water is extracted from an ecosystem .
a mining process during which rock or mineral deposits are extracted from the terrestrial surface layers of an astronomical body .
a mining process which occurs in a marine ecosystem .
a mining process during which coal is extracted from the rocky portion of an astronomical body .
a mining process during which metal ores and minerals that lie near the terrestrial surface of an astronomical body are extracted by removing the overlying material and breaking and loading the ore .
a land use process during which terrestrial environments are modified such that they can grow crop plants or allow the rearing of animals to provide food ,  fiber ,  medicines ,  or other products used by humans .
a planned environmental usage process during which humans access an environment in order to promote the refreshment of their physical and psychological health through relaxation and leisure activities .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment facilitates the movement of materials and material objects  ( persons or goods )  from place to place ,  typically with the assistance of a vehicle .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment supports 1 )  enterprises concerned with the provision to the public of essentials ,  such as electricity or water or 2 )  the basic network or foundation of capital facilities or community investments which are necessary to support economic and community activities .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment supports the settlement and dwelling of a community of humans .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment supports welfare activities organised by the state or a local authority and carried out by trained personnel .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment supports the sale of goods to ultimate consumers ,  usually in small quantities .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment supports activities which aim to protect citizens or any geographical area by preparing for or by using military means to resist the attack of an enemy .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment supports manufacturing facilities producing commodities that are sold with the expectation of recovering the total cost of production .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment supports facilities associated with commerce or the earning of a livelihood through means other than manufacturing or the provision of a public service .
a habitat which supports the persistence and growth of a population of calyptra moths and which overlaps mesic meadows and edges and clearings in vegetated areas .
a mountain which is located on land and which is bounded by an atmosphere or outer space .
a mountain that is part of a polar environment .
a mountain that is part of a temperate environment .
a mountain that is part of a tropical environment .
a montane forest ecosystem which 1 )  is evergreen ,  2 )  present on mountains where there is frequent cloud and mist cover ,  3 )  which has a large proportion of ferns and mosses in its plant communities ,  growing on all tree trunks and branches present in the ecosystem ,  and 3 )  harvests aerosolised water and adds it to the terrestrial water supply .
a visible mass of water droplets or ice crystals suspended in the air at or near a planetary surface ,  formed when humid air cools rapidly .
a mountain which has a maximum elevation greater than 2500 metres above sea level .
a mountain which has a maximum elevation between 300 and 2499 metres above sea level and slopes greater than or equal to two degrees of inclination .
a high - elevation mountain which has a maximum elevation greater than 4500 metres above sea level .
a high - elevation mountain which has a maximum elevation between 3500 and 4500 metres above sea level .
a high - elevation mountain which has a maximum elevation between 2500 and 3500 metres above sea level .
a mid - elevation mountain which has a maximum elevation between 1500 and 2499 metres above sea level and a slope greater than or equal to two degrees .
a mid - elevation mountain which has a maximum elevation between 1000 and 1499 metres above sea level and either 1 )  a slope greater than or equal to five degrees or 2 )  a local elevation range ,  within a 7 kilometre radius ,  of greater than 300 metres above sea level .
a mid - elevation mountain which has a maximum elevation between 300 and 999 metres above sea level and a local elevation range ,  within a 7 kilometre radius ,  of greater than 300 metres above sea level .
an elevated inner basin or plateau surrounded by mountains ,  but not  -  itself  -  a mountain .
an ecosystem which overlaps those areas of the foreshore and seabed that are exposed to the air at low tide and submerged at high tide .
a system of constructed and manufactured products which are used by humans to produce data ,  information ,  or knowledge about material ,  immaterial ,  or processual entities .
an observing system which generates long - term data about one or more entities of interest ,  typically using standardised methodology .
an observatory system which includes components used to generate  ( meta ) genomic ,   ( meta ) transcriptomic ,   ( meta ) proteomic ,  metabolomic ,  and other omic data ,  information ,  and knowledge .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of gaseous material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid or gaseous material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a building which is primarily used for the long - term habitation of humans .
a public prison is a building which used to forcibly confine humans and deprive them of selected rights and freedoms ,  under the authority of a state .
a tornado is an aeroform consisting of at least one rapidly rotating column of air that is in contact with both the surface of an astronomical body and pendant from within or beneath a cumulonimbus or cumulus cloud .
a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of an astronomical body comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
a fire whirl is a whirlwind induced by the contraction and rotation of intense ,  rising heat and turbulent ,  eddying air masses resulting from a large fire and made up of a core of burning matter surrounded by a rotating pocket of air .
a tornado which comprises two or more columns of spinning air rotating about their own axis and at the same time around a common center .
a tornado which a )  is not associated with a mesocyclone and is thus relatively weak and short - lived ,  b )  is centred on a small ,  smooth condensation funnel which often does not reach the planetary surface ,  and c )  forms a distinctively laminar cloud of dust when it makes contact with the land .
a tornado which connects a cumulus or cumulonimbus cloud to a body of water ,  often transporting water from that water body along the spiraling winds constituting  its vortex .
a vehicle which is able to travel through air in an atmosphere .
a slope of land descending laterally from a hill ,  mountain or main crest of a ridge .
a mass of environmental material which has been formed as the result of its transport into an existing mass of another material .
an elevation which is flattened across its highest surface .
a remote sensing process during which image data about an astronomical body or object is generated by sensors mounted on a satellite .
a remote sensing process during which image data about a planet is generated by sensors mounted on a satellite .
dioxygen which is the solute in a solution with ocean water as its solvent .
a macronutrient role which inheres in nitrate ,  nitrogen dioxide ,  ammonium ,  silicon ,  or phosphate dissolved in ocean water .
a system which is composed of carbon - based chemical entities dissolved in or otherwise part of an ocean or sea and the atmosphere adjacent to it ,  undergoing constant exchange through biogeochemical cycling .
a process by which landforms are formed from the thawing of ice - rich permafrost or the melting of massive ground ice .
an active ecosystem management process which targets an agricultural ecosystem .
a pollution process during which artificial light with wavelengths in the visible spectrum is released into the environment .
an electromagnetic radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a manufactured product .
radiation from a manufactured product during which light between the wavelenghts of 380 nm and 760 nm is emitted .
a solid surface layer which is that part of a glacier in contact with a planetary atmosphere ,  water body ,  or solid material partially surrounding that glacier .
a velocity quality which inheres in the surface layer of a glacier .
a tundra biome which exists at high altitudes and where vegetation  -  dominated by a few species of dwarf shrubs ,  a few grasses ,  sedges ,  lichens ,  and mosses  -  is stunted due to low temperatures and high winds .
an ice mass which has calved off an larger mass of ice .
an ice calf which is suspended in a water mass ,  being partially exposed to an atmosphere .
an ice calf which is frozen to the bed of an ocean or other water body .
an ice calf which rests on land .
a material transformation process during which a material's viscosity increase either through a reduction in temperature ,  through chemical reactions ,  or other physical effects .
sea ice which 1 )  has formed on the submerged surface  ( i .e .
water ice which has formed in a mass of permafrost .
freshwater ice which forms downward from the surface of a freshwater water body and is transparent due to a reduced number of air bubbles trapped in its mass .
freshwater ice which forms on a solid substrate through the freezing of freshwater .
freshwater congelation ice which has formed on a solid substrate in an ice cave .
a floating mass of ice which is 1 )  unattached to land or land - fast ice and 2 )  moved by the action of winds or currents .
a drift ice mass which is composed primarily of sea ice .
an area in which masses of drift ice aggregate such that they cover a minimum of 7 / 10ths - 8 / 10ths of the surface the water body they are floating in .
an environmental zone that overlaps that part of a water body covered or partially covered by sea ice .
an area in which masses of drift ice aggregate such that they cover less than 7 / 10ths of the surface the water body they are floating in .
a mass of sea ice which 1 )  is less than 2 meters in thickness and 2 )  forms along the coast ,  where it is attached to the shore ,  to an ice wall ,  to an ice front ,  or between shoals or grounded icebergs .
small ,  needle - like  ( spicules )  ,  plate - like ,  or discoid crystals derived from nearly pure fresh water ,  suspended in a water body .
land which is below the freezing point of water .
frozen soil which is firmly cemented by water ice ,  is subject to brittle failure ,  and exhibits practically no consolidation under load .
soil which is below the freezing point of water .
frozen soil which is cemented by water ice but has viscous properties due to its high ,  unfrozen water content and therefore will compress and deform under load .
frozen soil which has very low total water content and is not cemented by ice ;  its compressibility is the same as that of unfrozen soils having the same composition ,  total water content and density .
an ice mass which constitutes that part of a glacier which has the lowest elevation .
an ice mass which has been drilled from an accumulation of snow and ice that has built up over many years and that has recrystallized and has trapped air bubbles from previous time periods .
an ice field which is primarily composoed of sea ice floes greater than 10 kilometers across .
an ice field which is constituted by a continuous accumulation of snow and glacier ice that completely fills a mountain basin or covers a low - relief mountain plateau .
an advective transport process during which a mass of ice is transported from one location to another .
an iceberg which 1 )  has a flat upper surface ,  2 )  is derived from an ice shelf ,  ice tongue ,  or floating tidewater glacier via detachment .
an ice mass which is composed of a large amount of sea ice in the form of a hummock or a group of such hummocks ,  frozen together and separated from any surrounding ice by sea water .
an elevation which is formed by pressure at the point of contact between ice floes ,  resulting in a conglomeration of broken ice .
a hummock which is primarily composed of soil that has been pushed up by frost action .
a valley glacier which has one or more tributary glaciers as parts .
a valley glacier which does not have any tributary glaciers flowing into it .
a glacier which flows into a larger glacier .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of ice .
an ice surface layer which is primarily composed of water ice .
an two - dimensional continuant fiat boundary which overlaps the surface layer of a mass of ice .
a two - dimensional fiat ice surface which is composed primarily of water ice .
an ice mass which has broken away from a larger ice mass on land ,  such as a glacier or ice shelf ,  and may be either afloat or aground .
an ice mass which has formed over land .
a material congelation process during which a liquid turns into a solid when its temperature is lowered below its melting point .
a freezing process during which liquid water is transformed into water ice .
an ice lead which occurs in a marine water body and is bounded by sea ice .
a surface layer of a water body which has been formed as the result of surface ice fracturing and moving apart .
an ice lead between a mass of fast ice and a mass of pack ice .
an ice lead which occurs between the shore and pack ice .
a water surface that is part of a water body .
an ice lead within which new ,  nilas ,  and young ice has formed .
a drift ice mass which has an ice concentration above or equal to 7 / 10: which covers 70% or more of a given area of a water body .
ice which has formed as the result of freezing of water which was part of a water body .
an environmental zone which overlaps that part of an ocean or sea within which 1 )  sea ice is present only part of the year ,  2 )  extends from the permanent ice zone to the boundary where winter sea ice extent is at a maximum ,  and 3 )  primarily overlaps first - year ice when seasonal ice is present .
a layer which is composed of ground that 1 )  remains unfrozen due to increased solute concentration and 2 )  is present within a mass of permafrost .
an environmental material which is primarily composed of a dispersed phase of insoluable particles ,  approximately between 1 nanometer and 1 micrometer in maximum dimension ,  distributed throughout a material acting as a medium of suspension .
an environmental material which is solid ,  jelly - like ,  and exhibits no flow when in steady state material and which contains liquid dispersed in and held in place by cross - linked structures of a solid medium .
a gel which is primarily composed of a network of polymer chains that are hydrophilic ,  sometimes found as a colloidal gel in which water is the dispersion medium .
an environmental material which 1 )  is primarily composed of a fine ,  granular material such as sand ,  silt ,  or clay suspended in and saturated by water and 2 )  readily liquefies when weight is applied ,  losing strength and permitting objects to sink until their weight and buoyancy offset the weight of the displaced quicksand .
an aggregate of raindrops falling to a planetary surface during a precipitation process .
rain which is composed of water droplets falling to a planetary surface during a rainfall process .
sound which is lower in frequency than 20 hertz ,  or cycles per second .
an environmental zone which 1 )  contains ecosystems ,  constructed features ,  or other entities deemed to be of natural ,  historical ,  cultural ,  or other significance and 2 )  has been afforded legal protections restricting one or more forms of use by a competent authority .
an elevation which is formed as an ice mass forms under soil ,  resulting in upwards deformation of the land surface .
an ecoregion which is located on a landmass .
a surface layer of a water body which is part of an ocean or sea .
land which is present within a forest biome .
a hydroform which is maintained by a continuous ,  directed movement of water ,  generated by disequilibria in a water mass .
a fuel oil which 1 )  is derived from petroleum oil ,  2 )  has a strong odor ,  3 )  produces large quantities of soot relative to other fuel oils ,  4 )  is less refined than fuel oils such as paraffin .
a layer which is part of a cryosphere .
a layer of environmental material which is subject to freeze - thaw cycles .
a warming process during which the thermal energy in a portion of environmental material is sufficient to melt water - based ice or snow .
a process during which the temperature of a portion of environmental material is increased ,  along with the kinetic energy of its constituent molecules .
a thawing process during which permafrost is warmed beyond the melting point of water - based ice ,  snow ,  or other forms of solid water .
permafrost which contains inclusions of water - based ice .
a process during which the temperature of a portion of environmental material is decreased ,  along with the kinetic energy of its constituent molecules .
soil which is directly exposed to the atmosphere  -  with no intervening layer of plant life or other cover  -  and thus the effects of weathering and erosion .
a material accumulation process during which the mass of snow on a surface increases .
a material accumulation process during which ice forms in an environmental material or an existing accumulation of ice increases in mass .
a material accumulation process during which a accumulation of snow and ice forms or increases in mass .
a object which is composed primarily of water - based snow and ice .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being located within a glacier or ice sheet ,  between their summer surface or bed .
an environmental system process which occurs within a glacier or ice sheet .
a glacial surface layer which is present at the point in time where any given part of a glacier reaches its minimum annual mass .
a glacial surface layer which is adjacent to the bedrock or debris over which a glacier flows .
a tundra ecosystem which is subject to polar climatic conditions .
an ecosystem which is determined by the presence of rounded mineral concretions primarily composed of manganese hydroxides on the seafloor .
a water flow process during which fresh or brackish groundwater flows from from a landmass into the sea .
a water flow process during which water flows out of an aquifer .
a water flow process during which water is transported through an aquifer .
an environmental pollution process during which contaminants derived from agricultural activity are released into an environmental system .
an active agri - ecosystem management process during which the variability of land use types or the spatial structure of land under agricultural production is increased .
a conservation process during which the variability of life  -  from genes to ecosystems  -  is preserved .
a biodiversity conservation process during which the variability of insect communities ,  or parts thereof ,  is preserved .
an active agri - ecosystem management process during which an ecosystem is modified for the production of one or a small collection of crops or other agricultural products .
soil in which segregated ice will form  ( causing frost heave )  under the required conditions of moisture supply and temperature .
a process during which microscopic solid particulates are formed from liquid materials in an atmosphere .
a process during which supercooled water droplets in a cloud freeze into ice crystals .
an interval of time within an ice age and during which temperatures fall resulting in planet - wide glacier advances .
an interval of time within an ice age and during which temperatures rise and result in planet - wide glacier retreat .
a temporal interval during which a planet's surface and atmospheric temperatures fall ,  resulting in the presence or expansion of continental and polar ice sheets or alpine glaciers .
that part of an atmosphere which is composed of gaseous material .
a solid material which does not have a regularly organised internal structure .
a colloidal suspension which is dispersed through a part of a hydrosphere .
colloidal sediment which is suspended in a part of the hydrosphere .
an environmental material which is denser than bromoform .
an environmental material which is less dense than bromoform .
particulate matter which is surrounded by water that is part of a hydrosphere .
an aerosol that is suspended in an atmosphere .
an estuary in which mixing by tidal forcing exceeds the force of riverine output ,  resulting in thorough homogenisation of the estuary's water column and the disappearance of a vertical salinity gradient and the freshwater - seawater boundary .
a material transformation process during which solid or liquid particles form and are suspended in a mass of air ,  thus creating an aerosol .
an environmental process which involves glaciers or ice sheets .
a glacial ice loss process during which the snout  ( toe )  of a glacier shrinks following successive years of negative mass balance .
an ice calving process during which a mass of ice falls from a larger mass onto land .
an ice calving process during which a mass of ice falls from a larger mass into a body of water .
a frost action process which occurs in cold environments which are not part of a glacier .
a material transport process during which alternate freezing and thawing of moisture in soil ,  rock and other materials results  modifications of those materials and in the formation of structures on ,  or in ,  the ground .
a frost action process during which objects embedded in the ground are cumulatively displaced upwards .
a frost action process during which the soil particles are differentially displaced according to their size ranges .
a frost action process during which the pressure of water freezing in cracks ,  crevices ,  pores ,  joints or bedding planes results in the mechanical disintegration ,  splitting or break - up of rock .
a frost action process during which soil is displaced .
a mass of soil moved or disturbed by frost action .
a water flow process which comprises a suddenonset highmagnitude discharge of water and sediment from a glacial source
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being derived from ,  part of ,  or otherwise dependent on the seas or oceans .
an environmental zone which contains a weather front ,  bounded by frontal surfaces .
an aquaculture process during which marine organisms are cultivated in the open ocean ,  an enclosure in the ocean ,  or in tanks ,  ponds or raceways which are filled with seawater .
a mariculture process during which organisms are cultivated in cages which allow the passage of materials such as wastes ,  pathogens ,  antibiotics ,  and  -  should a containment breach occur  -  cultivated organisms themselves to and from the surrounding marine environment .
a construction which contains the equipment needed to perform mariculture in open cages  -  permitting the exchange of material with the surrounding marine water .
a gaseous surface layer which is composed of the warmer air mass ( es )  along the horizontal density and temperature discontinuity in a weather front .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of some liquid or gas .
a cline across which one or more solid environmental materials dissolve into their surrounding fluid .
a cline across which nutrient content of a fluid changes rapidly .
a cline which is part of a marine water body .
a surface layer which separates two portions of fluid with respect to either 1 )  a discontinuity of some fluid property or 2 )  some derivative of one of these properties in a direction normal to the interface .
a layer which is composed primarily of some fluid .
a fluid interface which separates two fluid masses with differing properties .
a fluid front which is composed primarily of gaseous material and separates at least two gaseous masses .
a gaseous front which separates two masses of air with different densities and is a principal cause of meteorological phenomena .
an object which is composed of a continuous mass of air .
a fluid surface layer which is composed primarily of some gaseous material .
a layer which separates two portions of environmental material which possess 1 )  differing compositions ,  2 )  a discontinuity of some property ,  or 3 )  some derivative of some property in a direction normal to the interface .
an object which is composed primarily of an environmental material
an object which is composed primarily of a solid environmental material
an object which is composed primarily of a fluid .
an object which is composed primarily of a gas .
an object which is composed primarily of a liquid .
an mass of environmental materials which has appreciable quantities of several individual materials ,  such that the removal of one would convert the mass into a different entity .
a material isosurface within which pressure is approximately constant .
a material isosurface within which salinity is approximately constant .
a material isosurface within which density is approximately constant .
a material isosurface within which temperature is approximately constant .
an isobaric surface that is part of an atmosphere .
a weather front which separates air masses of tropical and polar origin .
an environment which has a climate with continually high temperatures and with considerable precipitation ,  at least during part of the year .
an environment which has a climate with warm temperatures and with meagre precipitation .
an environment which is located in a part of an astronomical body subject to polar climatic conditions .
an environment which is located in a part of an astronomical body subject to subpolar climatic conditions .
an environment which is located in a part of an astronomical body subject to temperate climatic conditions .
a weather front which is nonoccluded and  which moves in the direction of the warmer air mass it is adjacent to ,  such that colder air will occupy the site where warmer air was previously present .
a weather front which is nonoccluded and which moves in the direction of the colder air mass it is adjacent to ,  such that warmer air will occupy the site where colder air was previously present .
a weather front at which warm air is ascending to high altitudes along the frontal surface .
a weather front at which warm air is descending to lower altitudes along the frontal surface .
a weather front which exists in an equatorial trough separating the air of the northern and southern hemispheres of an astronomical body .
an air mass which is part of the free atmosphere ,  including the troposphere and stratosphere .
an atmospheric layer which 1 )  is located above the planetary boundary layer ,  2 )  in which the effect of friction between moving air masses and the planetary surface is negligible ,  and 3 )  in which the air is usually treated  ( dynamically )  as an ideal fluid .
a weather front which is part of a mass of upper air .
a weather front which separates air behind a cold front from air ahead of a warm front .
an occluded front which is adjacent to a cold front 1 )  that is moving away from the coldest air in the vicinity ,   2 )  where the neighbouring cold front undercuts the neighbouring warm front in the occulsion zone ,  and 3 )  where the coldest air in the vicinity replaces less cold air towards the surface of the astronomical body .
an occluded front which is adjacent to a warm front 1 )  that is moving in the direction of the coldest air in the vicinity ,  2 )  where the original cold front is forced aloft at the warm front surface ,  and 3 )  where the coldest air is replaced by less cold air at the surface of the astronomical body .
an occluded front which is 1 )  adjacent to a cold and a warm front with no appreciable difference between the temperatures of their bordering air masses and 2 )  which creates a pressure trough ,  a wind - shift line ,  a band of cloudiness ,  and precipitation at the surface of the astronomical body .
a cold front which forms behind a frontal cyclone and within a cold air mass with an appreciable horizontal temperature gradient .
an atmospheric wind during which cold atmospheric gas flows downwards towards the surface of an astronomical body .
a katabatic wind during which atmospheric gas flows down the slope of an elevation ,  typically during periods of light larger - scale winds .
a katabatic wind which is driven by the cooling and subsequent sinking of atmospheric gas masses .
a downslope katabatic wind during which warm ,  dry atmospheric gas descends along the lee side of a mountain range as a result of synoptic - scale ,  cross - barrier flow over that range .
an environmental process during which a system does not thermally interact with its surroundings by virtue of a temperature difference between them .
an adiabatic process during which no condensation of water vapor occurs and no liquid water is present .
an adiabatic process which involves air saturated with water vapour and the presence of liquid water .
a katabatic wind during which the low temperature and increased density of a cold mass of atmospheric gas accelerates its descent .
a fall wind which has a source so cold that ,  when the atmospheric gas reaches the lowlands or coast ,  the dynamic warming is insufficient to raise its temperature to the normal level for the region ;  hence it appears as a cold wind .
an atmospheric wind which rapidly forms ,  lasts for a duration in the order of minutes ,  and then rapidly decreases in speed .
a storm which is nautical ,  localised ,  and of high severity local storm considered as a whole: that is ,  winds and cloud mass and  ( if any )  precipitation ,  thunder and lightning .
a wind which is driven by the acceleration of flow through a gap ,  constriction ,  or channel resulting from large - scale pressure gradient ,  or by venturi acceleration through a constricting passage .
a jet - effect which passes through a gap ,  constriction ,  or channel between mountains in a mountain range or between ranges themselves .
an atmospheric wind which moves up or down a slope and is driven by heating or cooling of that slope .
an upslope wind driven by heating at the slope surface under fair - weather conditions .
a process during which direct stellar radiation interacts with a planetary surface .
a material cooling process during which a portion of gaseous environmental material loses thermal energy to its surroundings .
a material cooling process during which a portion of liquid environmental material loses thermal energy to its surroundings .
a material cooling process during which a portion of solid environmental material loses thermal energy to its surroundings .
a material cooling process during which a portion of fluid environmental material loses thermal energy to its surroundings .
a material warming process during which the thermal energy in a volume of fluid increases .
a process of warming a fluid during which the thermal energy in a volume of gas increases .
a process of warming a fluid which includes a volume of liquid as a participant .
a material warming process during which the thermal energy in a mass of solid material increases .
a downslope katabatic wind which is generated by the cooling of atmospheric gas in contact with terrain surfaces .
a front which shows very little mobility .
a drainage wind which flows along the icy surface of a glacier .
a mass fluid flow which moves  in the same direction as a planet's rotation ,  rotating due to a coriolis effect .
an atmospheric storm during which winds flow with increased rates .
a wind storm during which strong gusts of wind occur ,  transporting atmospheric gas in a linear fashion .
a downdraft which is of high intensity and which spreads radially ,  ,  with high speed ,  across the planetary surface upon reaching it .
a macroburst during which no or very little rain is generated .
a macroburst during which large amounts of rain are generated .
a downburst during which high winds occur over an area less than four kilometres in diameter .
a downburst during which high winds occur over an area larger than four kilometres in diameter .
a microburst during which large amounts of rain are generated .
a microburst during which no or very little rain is generated .
a material transport process during which parts of an elastic material oscillate around their positions of equilibrium .
a vibration process which occurs in the solid parts of an astronomical body as low - frequency acoustic waves pass through them .
a seismic vibration process which is caused by a volcanic eruption .
a seismic vibration process which is caused by the impact of a solid object on the surface of an astronomical body .
an impact event is a collision between material entities ,  resulting in changes in one or both of those entities .
a seismic vibration process which is caused by an explosion .
a seismic vibration process which is caused by mass wasting .
a seismic vibration process which is caused by the collapose of a material entity ,  sending kinetic energy into astronomical body .
a process during which the ability of a material entity to maintain its internal organisation fails ,  resulting in deformation and a breakdown of that organisation .
a structural collapse process during which the walls of cave are unable to support the load placed upon them .
a seismic vibration process which is caused by an earthquake .
a tectonic earthquake which precedes the strongest tectonic earthquake in a series ,  linked to the same release of energy in the crust .
a tectonic earthquake which 1 )  is embedded in a series of tectonic earthquakes ,  linked to the same release of energy in the crust and 2 )  has the largest magnitude of the series .
a tectonic earthquake which 1 )  is embedded in a series of tectonic earthquakes ,  linked to the same release of energy in the crust and 2 )  occurs after the mainshock .
a fault across which older rocks are pushed above  ( away from the core of an astronomical body )  younger rocks .
a tectonic earthquake which occurs along a thrust fault which does not breach the surface of an astronomical body .
a thrust fault which does not breach the surface of an astronomical body .
an environmental zone which includes those regions of an astronomical body which are not exposed to its atmosphere or space .
a tectonic earthquake which has two or more mainshocks of similar magnitude ,  and which originate from the same fracture zone and stress field .
a tectonic earthquake which occurs at the boundary between two tectonic plates .
a tectonic earthquake which occurs within the interior parts of a tectonic plate .
an ecosystem in which the composition ,  structure ,  and function of resident ecological assemblages are primarily determined by a desert .
a solid astronomical body part which is part of the landmass of that body .
a large continuous area of land ,  either surrounded by sea or contiguous with another landmass .
a surface of an astronomical body which is part of a water body present on that body .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous medium bearing liquid ,  gaseous ,  and solid material in varying quantities .
a surface layer of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of solid material and is not covered by oceans or other bodies of water .
a sea which shalowly covers central areas of continents during periods of high sea level that result in marine transgressions .
a forest ecosystem which includes communities adapted to 1 )  hot to warm ,  dry summers ,  2 )  mild to cold ,  rainy winters ,  and 3 )  the influence of large ,  usually marine ,  bodies of water .
a broadleaf forest which is subject to tropical climate conditions .
a broadleaf forest which is subject to subtropical climate conditions .
a broadleaf forest which is subject to temperate climate conditions .
an environmental process either driven by or primarily impacting the parts or emergent properties of an ecosystem .
a mixed forest which is subject to temperate climatic conditions .
a mixed forest which is subject to tropical climatic conditions .
a tropical mixed forest in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a tropical broadleaf forest which 1 )  s subject to a year - round warm climate 2 )  may receive several hundred centimeters or rain per year and 3 )  are subject to long dry seasons which last several months .
a tropical broadleaf forest which 1 )  has low variability in annual temperature ,  2 )  high levels of rainfall  (  > 200 centimeter annually )  ,  and 3 )  has tree communities dominated by semi - evergreen and evergreen species .
a subtropical broadleaf forest which 1 )  s subject to a year - round warm climate 2 )  may receive several hundred centimeters or rain per year and 3 )  are subject to long dry seasons which last several months .
a subtropical broadleaf forest which 1 )  has low variability in annual temperature ,  2 )  high levels of rainfall  (  > 200 centimeter annually )  ,  and 3 )  has tree communities dominated by semi - evergreen and evergreen species .
a forest ecosystem which is subject to tropical climate conditions .
a forest ecosystem which is subject to subtropical climate conditions .
a forest ecosystem which is subject to temperate climate conditions .
a grassland ecosystem which is subject to tropical climatic conditions .
a grassland which is subject to subtropical climatic conditions .
a grassland which is subject to mediterranean climatic conditions .
a material entity which has been assembled through the intentional ,  instinctual ,  or deliberately programmed efforts of an organism or machine .
an object which is formed as a result of one or more biological processes and is composed primarily of organic material .
cell culturing is the aseptic maintainance and growth of collections of cells  outside of an organisms or natural environment in a suitable culture medium .
a manufactured product which has been designed to contain a mass of biomaterial .
a biomaterial containment unit which is designed to allow the growth and propagation of the biomaterial it contains .
a biomaterial culturing unit which is designed to promote the growth of selected cell populations  ( often at the expense of others )  within a community by altering the conditions of the environment within its confines .
a biomaterial culturing unit which is designed to promote the growth and propagation of cells in an artificial medium .
sediment through which hydrothermally modified fluids flow ,  altering its properties through interaction with their own .
an enrichment culturing unit which contains environmental material bearing ecological assemblages undergoing selection through experimentally imposed conditions .
an active enrichment culturing unit which contains environmental material maintained under conditions with no free oxygen .
an active enrichment culturing unit which contains environmental material maintained under conditions that favour the reduction of sulphate .
a biome which is subject to tropical climatic conditions .
a biome which is subject to temperate climatic conditions .
a biome which is subject to subtropical climatic conditions .
a biome which is subject to mediterranean climatic conditions .
a biome which is subject to subpolar climatic conditions .
a biome which is subject to alpine altitudinal conditions .
a biome which is subject to montane altitudinal conditions .
a biome which is subject to subapline altitudinal conditions .
a biome which is subject to arid environmental conditions .
an environment in which living organisms have a low likelihood of being harmed or killed
an environment in which material entities have a low likelihood of being damaged or destroyed .
an andosol which derives its silica content from glass and tephra ejected during a volcanic eruption .
an environmental process during which momentum is transferred from one material entity to another .
a momentum transfer process which unfolds as winds generate drag at the bottom of the atmosphere , coupled to dynamical forcing at the surface of the ocean .
a rate which inheres in an atmosphere - ocean momentum transfer process .
hoar which is usually cup - shaped and facetted and which forms within dry snow beneath the snow surface .
frost which is 1 )  composed primarily of granular ice tufts ,  2 )  formed on the windward sides of exposed objects through contact with supercooled fog or cloud ,  and 3 )  built out directly against the wind .
an environmental material which is primarily composed of minute ice crystals covering a cold surface .
a field in which geothermal processes occur .
a process during which one entity loses energy to another entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being located in the vicinity of  -  but not adjacent to or within  -  a glacier or ice sheet .
a geothermally active field within which geothermally heated aqueous fluids are discharged from the the surface of a rocky planet .
a material accumulation process during which the volume of liquid entity increases .
an infrared radiation process which 1 )  transmits radiant energy has wavelengths between 3 .0 and 100 m ,  2 )  is emitted from a planet and its atmosphere out to space in the form of thermal radiation .
an area density which inheres in a clouds by virtue of some influence exerted their mass exerts on a given area .
a temperature of air at which air become saturated with water vapour and below which airborne water vapour will condense to form liquid water  ( dew )  .
an atmospheric wind which 1 )  has an increased rate relative to other winds in the same region and 2 )  is followed by a lull .
an electromagnetic radiation process during which radiant energy with wavelengths in the visible ,  near - ultraviolet ,  or near - infrared spectra is realised .
electromagnetic radidation which involves radiant energy in a spectral range  ( wave band )  between 400 to 700 nanometers ,  that photosynthetic organisms are able to use in the process of photosynthesis .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in air that is part of an atmosphere .
a planned process during which an oil or gas well is modified .
a well intervention during which the production of an oil or gas well is increased by improving the flow of hydrocarbons from the reservoir into the well bore .
a well stimulation technique during which bedrock formations are fractured through the injection of pressurized proppant - bearing liquid into a well - bore .
a liquid environmental material which is composed primarily of water ammended with thickening agents and proppants .
a well which has been drilled in order to extract natrual gas from subterranean reservoirs and bring it to the surface .
a depression in the ground resembling a hole or cavity ,  either natural or anthropogenic .
a pit which is used for the collection and storage of manure .
a construction in which eggs are hatched under artificial conditions .
a hatchery in which the eggs of poultry are hatched under artificial conditions .
a hypodermic needle is a medical instrument made from a hollow needle .
a textile is a manufactured product comprised of a network of natural or artificial fibers  ( often referred to as thread or yarn )  .
bedclothing is a textile covering used on a bed as a sheet ,  blanket ,  or pillowcase .
a pockmark field is an undersea feature formed by shallow seabed depressions ,  typically several tens of metres across and a few metres deep .
nesting material is an animal habitation consisting of matierals used to cushion ,  insulate and protect the young of the organism .
livestock is an animal - associated habitat consisting of any domestic or domesticated animal intentionally raised for food or in the production of food or raised as stock to produce food or fibre ,  in an agricultural setting or for its labour or pen - raised animals raised on licensed game farm operations .
cultured habitat is an controlled habitat created by humans through laboratory techniques usually for the purposes of preparing cell ,  organ ,  tissue and plant tissue cultures .
tissue culture is the culture of cells ,  tissues or organs in a nutrient medium under sterile conditions .
a cell culture is a growth of cells in vitro in an artificial medium for experimental research .
plant tissue culture is the growth or maintenance of plant cells ,  tissues ,  organs or whole plants in vitro .
organ culture is the aseptic culture of complete living organs of animals and plants outside the body in a suitable culture medium .
an organic material which is primarily composed of some natural bodily fluid or secretion such as blood ,  semen ,  saliva ,  blood plasma ,  intracellular and interstitial fluids .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of blood ,  a bodily fluid composed of blood plasma and blood cells suspended within the plasma that circulates around the organism's body .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of amniotic fluid ,  a bodily fluid consisting of watery liquid surrounding and cushioning a growing fetus within the amnion .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of excreta ,  bodily fluids consisting of matter which contains the waste products of biological processes ,  including urine or feces ,  discharged from an organism's body .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of bile ,  a bodily fluid consisting of a bitter ,  yellow or green alkaline fluid secreted by hepatocytes from the liver of most vertebrates .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of aqueous humour ,  a bodily fluid consisting of a thick watery substance that fills the space between the lens and the cornea .
an excreta material which is composed primarily of sweat ,  an excreta consisting primarily of water as well as a smaller amount of sodium chloride that is excreted by the sweat glands in the skin of mammals .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of chyme ,  a bodily fluid consisting of a liquid substance found in the stomach before passing through the pyloric valve and entering the duodenum .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of blood plasma ,  a bodily fluid that comprises the liquid component of blood ,  in which the blood cells are suspended .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of ear wax ,  a bodily fluid consisting of a yellowish ,  waxy substance secreted in the ear canal of humans and many other mammals .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of cerebrospinal fluid ,  a clear bodily fluid that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of chyle ,  a bodily fluid consisting of a milky fluid consisting of lymph and emulsified fats ;  formed in the small intestine during digestion of ingested fats .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of breast milk ,  is a bodily fluid produced that is secreted from two milk - secreting glandular organs on a female's chest .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of vitreous humor ,  a bodily fluid consisting of a clear gel that fills the space between the lens and the retina of the eyeball of humans and other vertebrates .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of a pleural effusion ,  a bodily fluid that is produced in excess and accumulates in the pleural cavity ,  the fluid - filled space that surrounds the lungs .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of a volume of tears ,  a bodily fluid consisting of a drop of the clear salty liquid secreted by glands  ( lacrimal glands )  in the eyes .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of an oronasal secretion ,  a bodily fluid secreted from the body via the mouth or nose .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of saliva ,  a slightly alkaline secretion of water ,  mucin ,  protein ,  salts ,  and often a starch - splitting enzyme  ( as ptyalin )  that is secreted into the mouth by salivary glands ,  lubricates ingested food ,  and often begins the breakdown of starches .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of sebum ,  an oily bodily fluid secreted from the sebaceous glads that is made of fat  ( lipids )  and the debris of dead fat - producing cells .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of pus ,  a bodily fluid consisting of a whitish - yellow or yellow substance produced during inflammatory responses of the body that can be found in regions of pyogenic bacterial infections .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of synovial fluid ,  a bodily fluid secreted by the synovial membrane into the joint cavity to form a thin layer at the surface of cartilage .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of mucus ,  a bodily fluid consisting of a slippery secretion of the lining of the mucous membranes in the body .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of lymph ,  a bodily fluid consisting of a usually clear coagulable fluid that passes from intercellular spaces of body tissue into the lymphatic vessels ,  is discharged into the blood by way of the thoracic duct and right lymphatic duct ,  and resembles blood plasma in containing white blood cells and especially lymphocytes but normally few red blood cells and no platelets .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of interstitial fluid ,  a bodily fluid consisting of a solution which bathes and surrounds the cells of multicellular animals .
a biological product is an environmental substrate comprised of any virus ,  therapeutic serum ,  toxin ,  antitoxin ,  or analogous product available to prevent ,  treat or cure diseases or injuries in man .
siliceous ooze is a marine sediment composed of the debris of plankton with silica shells ,  such as diatoms and radiolaria .
red clay ,  also known as pelagic clay ,  accumulates in the deepest and most remote areas of the ocean .
calcareous ooze is a marine sediment composed primarily of the shells -  - also known as tests -  - of foraminifera ,  coccolithophores ,  and pteropods .
food material which can be used to meet nutritional requirements of animals ,  particularly livestock such as cattle ,  goats ,  sheep ,  horses ,  chickens and pigs .
contaminated animal feed is an animal feed that has become contaminated with or come contact with microorganisms or toxic chemicals .
coastal water is a marine water body bordering a coast .
raw milk which has not undergone the pasteurization process .
a canopy designed to protect against precipitation or sunlight .
a skin obtained from animals for human use typically from deer or cattle sources used to produce leather ,  shoes ,  fashion accessories ,  musical instruments .
a mixture of crushed and coarsely ground bones that is used as an organic fertilizer for plants and formerly in animal feed .
food material which can be used to meet nutritional requirements of plants .
a textile comprised of a pliable material made usually by weaving ,  felting ,  or knitting natural or synthetic fibers and filaments .
a soil consisting of the upper layer of soil on the surface consisting of loose material capable of supporting life composed of a mixture of mineral and organic matter .
a written message from one person to another addressed to a person or organization .
an environmental material that is the non - aqueous ,  non - gaseous residues that remain after something is burned .
a combustible black or brownish - black sedimentary rock usually occurring in rock strata in layers or veins called coal beds or coal seams .
a type of rock that contains sufficient minerals with important elements including metals that can be economically extracted from the rock .
dust which is derived from coal .
dust which is derived from mineral material .
dust which is composed of fibrous material .
dust which is composed primarily of some metallic material .
dust which is derived from clay material .
dust that comes from grain and all the other substances associated with its cultivation & harvesting .
a surface mine that utilizes a technique of extracting rock or minerals from the earth by their removal from an open pit or borrow .
a gas ,  smoke ,  or vapor that smells strongly or is dangerous to inhale .
respirable vapor of vanadium .
a wax that is naturally synthesized by a plant or animal .
a white or colourless soft solid derivable from petroleum ,  coal or oil shale ,  that consists of a mixture of hydrocarbon molecules containing between twenty and forty carbon atoms .
an organic - rich fine - grained sedimentary rock containing kerogen from which liquid hydrocarbons called shale oil can be produced .
a hydrological process that results in the drainage of water from peatlands
any liquid ,  liquefiable ,  or mastic composition that ,  after application to a substrate in a thin layer ,  converts to a solid film .
paint that contains lead .
a planned process that is the movement of people ,  animals and goods from one location to another .
the residue powder that is derived from the combustion of wood .
ash that is produced from the burning of coal .
a very fine ,  powdery material composed mostly of silica made from the burning of finely ground coal in a boiler .
a coarse ,  angular ash particle that is too large to be carried up into the smoke stacks so it forms in the bottom of the coal furnace .
molten bottom ash from slag tap and cyclone type furnaces that turns into pellets that have a smooth glassy appearance after it is cooled with water .
a material leftover from the process of reducing sulfur dioxide emissions from a coal - fired boiler that can be a wet sludge consisting of calcium sulfite or calcium sulfate or a dry powered material that is a mixture of sulfites and sulfates .
a liquid or a gas .
a process in which includes the components of an environmental system as participants .
a type of land degradation in which terrestrial ecosystem becomes increasingly dry ,  typically losing its bodies of water as well as vegetation and wildlife .
a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland and / or tidal waters ,  and / or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source .
a process which occurs within an atmosphere .
a process by which thermal radiation from a planetary surface is absorbed by atmospheric greenhouse gases ,  and is re - radiated in all directions .
a process which diminishes the functioning of an ecosystem located on land .
a process which consists of all photosynthesis processes instantiated in an ecosystem .
a process which consists of all respiration processes instantiated in an ecosystem .
a biogeochemical process during which one or more chemical compounds are sequentially converted into a series of related compounds in a regularly repeating ,  periodic fashion .
a biogeochemical cycle which has carbon - bearing chemical entities as participants .
establishment of a new forest by seeding or planting of nonforested land .
an ecosystem process during which the flora and fauna belonging to a forest are removed or destroyed .
the planting of trees in areas in where forests have previously been cleared .
a process during which the populations in a community of algae in a marine or freshwater ecosystem undergo rapid growth ,  resulting in high concentrations of algal cells that occur only periodically and briefly in that ecosystem ,  relative to their concentrations through the majority of the planetary orbital period .
a process during which the rapid growth of algal populations that result in an algal bloom ceases ,  and cell densities begin to fall due to death ,  predation ,  and transport .
a process during which the algal cells constituting an algal bloom produce biomass from abiotic components during photosynthesis .
a process during which humans apply technology to alter the magnitude ,  duration ,  rate ,  or impact of an environmental process .
an environmental process which is driven by the action of humans .
an action of exogenic processes  ( such as water flow or wind )  which remove environmental material from one part of a planet's crust ,  transporting it to another location where it is deposited .
an erosional process in which bedrock is converted from its solid form into a solute by the action of some solvent .
a process during which chemicals that are involved in natural ecosystem processes are transported or transformed ,  and which impact the activity of biological entities
an environmental process which has water  -  in any of its states  -  as a participant .
a planned process during which human agents establish plant communities in ecosystems which have previously been ,  partially or wholly ,  stripped of existing plant communities .
evapotranspiration is the sum of evaporation and plant transpiration from the earth's land and ocean surface to the atmosphere .
evaporation is a form of vaporisation which occurs when a portion of the surface layer of a liquid in contact with a gaseous material ,  which is not saturated with the evaporating substance ,  vaporises .
transpiration is the process of water movement through a plant and its evaporation from aerial parts of that plant ,  such as from leaves but also from stems and flowers .
an environmental system process that results in the introduction of contaminants into an environment .
a pollution process during which particulates or other contaminants are released into a portion of air .
a pollution process during which contaminants are released into soil .
a pollution process during which contaminants are released into water .
a pollution process during which plastic contaminants are released into an environmental material .
an process in which environmental parameters and variables are continually assayed .
a planned process during which the amount of pollutants released into an environmental system is regulated .
a monitoring process that assays the level of environmental pollutants to determine the presence of effect of environmental pollution .
a pollution process that results in increased levels of pollutants in an urban environment .
partially compacted granular snow ,  which has undergone several cycles of melting and refreezing while being compacted ,  usually found on the atmosphere - exposed surface of a glacier .
granular snow which contains a proportion of fused granules formed through melting and re - thawing while being compacted by the weight of overlying material and which contains interconnected gaseous pores .
a material transformation process during which recently precipitated ,  powdery snow transitions into firn or nv through compaction and / or through cycles of freezing and thawing .
any water ice that is part of a glacier .
glacial ice which contains material liberated during a glacial erosion process .
an erosion process during which the movement of a glacier across a terrestrial surface causes the removal of material from that surface .
water ice containing little to no air bubbles resulting in a reduction of internal light scattering and ,  given sufficient volume ,  a blue appearance .
a physical process during which atoms ,  molecules ,  or other consituents of a material entity are forced closer together .
a process during which the mass of one or more materials ,  present within a given site ,  increases .
a process during which material is displaced from its original location and transported either to a new location or back to the original location .
a material accumulation process during which the mass of an existing ice mass increases .
a material transport process during which the snow and ice constituting a glacier ,  and anything contained within it ,  is transported down a slope by gravitation .
a small glacier contained within a cirque basin .
a depression which is part of a planetary crust ,  is of geographic scale ,  and is partially or completely enclosed .
a process during which a mass composed of one or more environmental materials ,  present within a given site ,  decreases .
a process during which the mass of ice constituting a glacier decreases .
a stream which is primarily composed of meltwater and which flows within a glacier or ice sheet .
a material transport process during which one or more environmental materials are transported by the action of wind .
particulate matter primarily composed of carbon particles formed through the incomplete combustion of hydrocarbons .
water ice which contains material liberated during an erosion process .
uncompacted snow containing trapped atmospheric gases .
a process during which the mass of ice constituting a glacier increases .
a process during which a part of a glacier breaks away from the main mass .
a process during which a part of a glacier breaks away from the main mass as an iceberg .
a process during which a part of an iceberg breaks away from the main mass .
sediment which has been transported through the marine water column ,  settling on the seafloor .
marine sediment soured from either terrestrial systems ,  marine organisms ,  seawater and or cosmogeneous sources ,  which is transported through the marine water column ,  and accumulates within shallow regions of the oceanic basin close to continents ,  such as the continental shelf ,  or continental slope .
a water body which is located in a depression within the surface of a glacier .
a material accumulation process during which solid particles are pulled through a water body by gravitation or centrifugal force and which ends when they settle on a solid surface .
an ablation zone which is part of a glacier .
particulate matter which is composed primarily of dust ,  rock ,  and soot ,  as well as the microbial communities associated with these materials ,  deposited on an ice mass by an aeolian process .
a vertical thaw hole within an ice mass ,  formed as a result of ice melt associated with local temperature increases ,  due to increased absorption of solar radiation by cryoconite deposits .
a water body which forms as a result of localised melting taking place on the surface of a glacier or a mass of sea ice and which is contained in the cavity formed by such melting .
a channel through which brine flows .
a material accumulation process during which brine droplets ,  trapped between ice crystals formed during seawater freezing ,  form brine channels .
a process during which a portion of some environmental material is converted into a different material or a collection of materials .
a material transformation process during which seawater freezes into sea ice .
a material transformation process during which brine is formed due to the expulsion of salt during frazil formation or a seawater freezing process .
new ice which is composed frazil which has congealed into a thin sheet .
a new ice formation process during which small ,  needle - like crystals consisting of nearly pure fresh water ,  form due to the freezing of open ,  turbulent ,  supercooled water .
a channel which traverses an ice mass floating on a water body and bridges the atmosphere to the underlying water through its internal cavity .
a melt pond which has a surface exposed to the atmosphere .
a melt pond which is completely encased in ice and thus not directly exposed to the atmosphere or underlying water .
a lake which is comprised of meltwater located underneath or within a glacier .
a process during which material entities are added to a landform or to a feature upon the landform .
a desublimation process during which water vapour is frozen into water ice .
an ice formation process during which water is frozen into a form of new ice such as frazil ,  grease ice ,  slush ,  or shuga .
an ice formation process during which seawater is frozen into a sea ice .
a sea ice formation process during which new ice crystals freeze together ,  forming nilas ,  a thin ,  elastic ,  continuous ,  ice sheet of a transparent gray color .
a sea ice formation process during which water freezes to the bottom of an existing nilas ice floe creating a thicker ice floe known as young ice .
a sea ice formation process during which seawater freezes onto young ice during the cold season ,  forming first year ice .
a sea ice formation process during which seawater freezes onto first year ice during the cold season ,  forming second year sea ice .
a sea ice formation process during which seawater freezes into second year ice during the cold season ,  forming multiyear ice .
water ice which is formed from freezing water and is suspended in a water body .
a cohesive and contiguous sheet of water ice which floats upon the surface of a water body .
an ice floe which is formed from frozen sea water ,  and floats upon the surface of a marine water body .
a sea ice floe which has a rounded or circular shape and raised rims .
a sea ice floe which is thin ,  elastic ,  continuous ,  and of a transparent gray color ,  which results from the freezing of new ice .
a sea ice floe which is inflexible and thicker than nilas .
sea ice which has formed over a single freezing season .
sea ice which is thicker than first year ice ,  and has survived a seasonal melting process .
sea ice which is thicker than second year ice ,  and has survived more than two seasonal melting process .
a layer which consists of a thin aggregate of frazil ice crystals ,  which float upon the surface of a water body .
new ice ,  which is spongy ,  lumpy and opaque ,  and forms from water which freezes in an agitated water body .
a slurry of frazil ,  snow ,  and liquid water .
a layer which consists of slush ice .
a new ice formation process in which slush ice is formed .
a new ice formation process in which shuga is formed .
a freshwater lake which fills a depression formed by the erosion of thermokarst caused by permafrost thaw .
a thermokarst lake through which methane gas released from thawing permafrost ,  or other methane stores ,  rises and escapes to the atmosphere .
a geographic basin which is formed due to the erosion of thermokarst by meltwater released from thawing permafrost .
an irregular land surface which consists of marshy hollows ,  hummocks ,  thermokarst depressions and thermokarst lakes formed from the erosion of ice - rich thawing permafrost areas .
a permafrost thawing process during which water - based ice or snow present in permafrost is converted into meltwater .
permafrost which contains pockets of trapped methane gas .
a crater which is found in permafrost and formed as a result of an explosion fuelled by methane formerly contained in that permafrost .
a process during which a material entity undergoes a rapid increase in volume ,  releasing gasses and various forms of energy ,  often including thermal ,  light and sound energy .
an explosion during which methane - rich gas trapped in permafrost combusts .
a material transport process during which a portion of gaseous environmental material is transported into the atmosphere .
a gas emission process during which a portion of hydrocarbon gas is transported into the atmosphere .
a hydrocarbon gas emission process during which a portion of methane gas is transported into the atmosphere .
a process during which the intesity of stellar radiation received by a planet's surface varies in a cyclical regime due to the planet's orbital motion around the barycentre of a planetary system and / or the tilt of its rotational axis relative to its orbital plane .
a one - dimensional temporal region which is delimited by the occurrence of processes which serve as its delimiters .
a season during which the average temperature of a planetary part exceeds that of all other seasons it endures during a season generating process .
a season during which the average temperature of a planetary part is below that of all other seasons it endures during a season generating process .
a material transformation process during which a material entity melts during a warm season .
a compaction process during which a material entity subjected to heat and / or pressure is compacted into a solid mass without undergoing melting .
a sintering process during which snow is compacted into glacial ice .
an aeolian transport process during which powdery snow is displaced and moved .
an accumulation process during which a powdery snow carried on the wind settles on a solid surface ,  forming a mound .
a mass wasting process during which slab snow rapidly moves down a sloping surface .
an avalanche during which powdery snow rapidly flows down a sloping surface .
an avalanche during which a suspension of water and snow flows down a sloping surface .
snow which is cohesive ,  hard and overlies weaker snow .
a geographic feature which is primarily composed of a continuous mass of snow and / or ice .
a mass of snow .
an accumulation of powdery snow which was transported and deposited via a snow drifting process .
an accumulation of snow and firn which rests upon land .
a snow patch which forms during a cold season and melts away during the succeeding warm season .
a snow patch which persists through at least one seasonal cycle .
a layer which consists of an accumulation of snow .
a structure which traverses a mass of one or more environmental materials ,  and encloses a roughly tubular site .
a melt pond which and is exposed to the atmosphere and to a lesser degree water underlying the ice mass which contains it .
a melt pond which is formed close to that part of an ice mass which is in contact with some underlying water body ,  and which has channels connecting it to that water body .
a lake which is situated beneath a glacier .
an erosion process during which rock or soil is removed or degraded due to alternative thawing and freezing of meltwater beneath and at the margins of snowbanks .
a fire which is planned and executed deliberately under human supervision .
the concentration of nitrate and nitrite when measured in liquid water .
a water - based rainfall process during which water droplets with increased acidity fall towards a planetary surface .
water - based rain which has increased acidity .
a season during which changes in atmospheric circulation associated with the asymmetric heating of land and sea cause moisture to be brought inland by monsoon winds ,  leading to increased rainfall as moisture - laden air rises  and cools over land .
an atmospheric wind during which air masses over an ocean flow towards a land mass ,  driven by disequilibria between land and ocean surface temperatures .
a fire which occurs in a grassland ,  combusting biomass stored in grasses as its primary fuel .
a woodland clearing which is large enough to starve land fires of fuel ,  impeding their progress through wooded areas .
a park which has been designed for the recreation of children .
a park which is owned by a governmental or state entity and which is accessible by its citizenry  ( i .e .
a sports facility which has been constructed for sports that require large outdoor spaces and is owned by a governmental or state entity and which is accessible by its citizenry  ( i .e .
a constructed pavement which is intended for bicycle traffic
an anthropogenic environmental material consisting of any object no longer wanted and discarded outside of approved trash receptacles .
an anthropogenic environment in which populations of humans have limited acess to affordable and nutritious food .
an environment in which entities are exposed to either excessive or constant sound .
an environment in which humans have a low likelihood of being harmed or killed .
an environment which includes components which are deemed to be aesthetically pleasing by a population of humans .
an environmental system which is shielded from direct stellar irradiation by material entities .
an environment in which humans are exposed to regularly occurring physical or emotional violence .
adfreezing is a freezing process during which two objects adhere to each other via ice .
frost heaving is a process during which an upwards swelling of soil occurs due to freezing conditions caused by an increasing presence of ice as it grows towards the surface .
a water temperature which inheres in water close to the surface of an ocean or sea .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in soil .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in air .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in freshwater .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in seawater .
water which is part of a lake .
organic material in soil ,  which consists of plant and animal residues at various stages of decomposition ,  cells and tissues of soil organisms ,  and substances synthesized by soil organisms .
a layer which is composed of ground that is 1 )  subject to annual thawing and freezing and 2 )  present in areas underlain by permafrost .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of soil .
a soil surface which is exposed to the troposphere ,  with no appreciable cover from vegetation or other material .
particulate matter which is composed primarily of organic material .
particulate organic matter which is composed primarily of carbon .
particulate organic matter which is composed primarily of nitrogen .
a material accumulation process during which atmospheric carbon dioxide is captured and stored .
a carbon sequestration process during which atmospheric carbon dioxide is captured and stored by biological processes .
a carbon sequestration process during which carbon dioxide is stored in underground geological formations .
a carbon sequestration process during which carbon dioxide is stored in the carbonate system of an ocean .
an environment that is determined by an axilla skin .
an environment that is determined by a mouth .
the solubility of a carbon atom when measured in environmental material .
the solubility of a carbon atom when measured in soil .
the solubility of a carbon atom when measured in water .
the amount of a carbon atom when measured in environmental material .
the amount of a carbon atom when measured in soil .
the amount of a carbon atom when measured in water .
the concentration of a carbon atom when measured in environmental material .
the concentration of a carbon atom when measured in soil .
the concentration of a carbon atom when measured in water .
the solubility of a nitrogen atom when measured in environmental material .
the solubility of a nitrogen atom when measured in soil .
the solubility of a nitrogen atom when measured in water .
the amount of a nitrogen atom when measured in environmental material .
the amount of a nitrogen atom when measured in soil .
the amount of a nitrogen atom when measured in water .
the concentration of a nitrogen atom when measured in environmental material .
the concentration of a nitrogen atom when measured in soil .
the concentration of a nitrogen atom when measured in water .
the concentration of a chloride when measured in water .
the carbon atom in a dissolved state when measured in environmental material .
the carbon atom in a dissolved state when measured in soil .
the carbon atom in a dissolved state when measured in water .
the nitrogen atom in a dissolved state when measured in environmental material .
the nitrogen atom in a dissolved state when measured in soil .
the nitrogen atom in a dissolved state when measured in water .
the temperature of some environmental material .
the temperature of some air .
the quality of a environmental system process .
the intensity of a atmospheric wind .
the porosity of some soil .
the mass density of some soil .
the concentration of a ammonium when measured in soil .
the concentration of a nitrate when measured in soil .
the composition of some soil .
the structure of some soil .
the acidity of some soil .
the pressure of some air .
the temperature of some soil .
the wetness of some soil .
the temperature of some water .
the humidity of some soil .
the conductivity of some soil .
the composition of some water .
the conductivity of some water .
the concentration of a nitrate when measured in groundwater .
obsolete the concentration of a oxygen when measured in water .
a hydrological precipitation process with a reduced rate relative to some historical average ,  typically resulting in ecosystemic perturbations .
a gelatinous material primarily composed of exopolymeric compounds with colloidal properties ,  formed through the aggregation of marine snow particles ,  often found in large sheets ,   flocs ,  and clouds .
a process in which carbohydrates are transported from the interior of an organism to its surroundings .
a process which results in the formation of an island .
an island created when a continent is rifted .
an island formed by deposition of solid material such as sand or small rocks where a water current loses some of its carrying capacity .
an island formed by the accumulation of sand deposited by sea currents on a continental shelves
a manufactured product that is some mixture of chemicals created through some chemical engineering process
the portion of chemical products obtained by the distillation of a tar that remains heavier than water ,  notably useful for its anti - septic and preservative properties
a wastewater treatment plant that treates industrial wastewater .
a wastewater treatment plant that treats agriculatural wastewater .
a feature that arises from a rapid increase or accumulation in the population of algae  ( typically microscopic )  in an aquatic system .
an algal bloom that is located in freshwater .
an animal habitation constructed by termites .
charcoal that is used as a soil amendment .
a soft ,  brown ,  combustible ,  sedimentary rock formed from naturally compressed peat .
a relatively soft coal containing a tarlike substance called bitumen or asphalt .
a hard ,  compact variety of coal that has a submetallic luster .
the generation of energy for use by humans
a disposition which is realized during the execution of work ,  the emission of heat ,  or the possession of mass .
energy possessed by an object because of its position relative to other objects ,  stresses within itself ,  its electric charge ,  or other factors .
energy that it realized through motion .
potential energy due to or stored in electric fields .
potential energy due to or stored in magnetic fields .
potential energy due to or stored in gravitational fields .
potential energy due to chemical bonds .
potential energy that binds an electron to its atom or molecule .
potential energy that binds nucleons to form the atomic nucleus  ( and nuclear reactions )  .
potential energy due to the energy of the gluon - mediated field of the strong force ,  binding quarks together into hadrons .
potential energy due to the deformation of a material  ( or its container )  exhibiting a restorative force .
kinetic and potential energy in an elastic material due to a propagated deformational wave .
kinetic and potential energy in a fluid due to a sound propagated wave .
potential energy stored in the fields of propagated by electromagnetic radiation ,  including light .
potential energy due to an object's rest mass .
kinetic energy which is realized through the microscopic motion of particles ,  a form of disordered mechanical energy .
thermal energy which propagates through a solid  ( typically rocky )  astronomical body .
a power station which burns a fossil fuel such as coal ,  natural gas ,  or petroleum to produce electricity .
coal heated in the absence of air .
a biogeochemical cycle which has oxygen as participant .
an environment which is determined by an anatomical entity .
an environmental system determined by an intestine .
an environment determined by an area or zone of skin tissue .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted at wavelengths and frequencies which travel exclusively in a line - of - sight fashion and which may produce molecular rotation and torsion on contact with matter .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted at wavelengths ranging from millimetre to kilometer scales .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted when molecules change their rotational - vibrational movements ,  usually at wavelengths between 760 nm and 1 mm .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted at wavelengths between 380 nm and 760 nm .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted at wavelengths between 10 nm and 400 nm .
a radiation process during which penetrating electromagnetic radiation is emitted by high - energy electrons as they fall into a lower state of energy .
a radiation process during which penetrating electromagnetic radiation is emitted from the radioactive decay  ( gamma decay )  of atomic nuclei .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted with sufficient energy to disrupt molecular bonds or alter the electron number of atoms .
the concentration of adenosine 5 - triphosphate when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of alloxanthine when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of alpha - carotene when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of ammonium when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of bacteriochlorophyll a when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of beta - carotene when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of carotene when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of chlorophyll a when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of chlorophyll b when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of chlorophyllide a when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of dioxygen when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of divinyl chlorophyll a when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of divinyl chlorophyll b when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of fucoxanthin when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of guanosine 5 - triphosphate when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of hydrogen peroxide when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of hydrogen sulfide when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of lutein when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of methane when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of neoxanthin when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of nitrate when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of nitrite when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of nitrous oxide when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of peridinin when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of phosphate when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of silicate ( 4 -  )  when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of violaxanthin when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of zeaxanthin when measured in liquid water .
the acidity of some water .
the depth of some water .
the fluorescence of some water .
the pressure of some water .
the concentration of silicic acid when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of chlorophyll when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of bromine when measured in lake water .
the concentration of cerium when measured in lake water .
the concentration of cobalt when measured in lake water .
the concentration of dysprosium when measured in lake water .
the concentration of europium when measured in lake water .
the concentration of gadolinium when measured in lake water .
the concentration of lanthanum when measured in lake water .
the concentration of lithium when measured in lake water .
the concentration of methanesulfonic acid when measured in lake water .
the concentration of molybdenum when measured in lake water .
the concentration of neodymium when measured in lake water .
the concentration of niobium when measured in lake water .
the concentration of praseodymium when measured in lake water .
the concentration of samarium when measured in lake water .
the concentration of silver when measured in lake water .
the concentration of thallium when measured in lake water .
the concentration of tin when measured in lake water .
the concentration of titanium when measured in lake water .
the concentration of yttrium when measured in lake water .
the concentration of bromine when measured in water ice .
the concentration of cerium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of cobalt when measured in water ice .
the concentration of dysprosium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of europium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of gadolinium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of lanthanum when measured in water ice .
the concentration of lithium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of methanesulfonic acid when measured in water ice .
the concentration of molybdenum when measured in water ice .
the concentration of neodymium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of niobium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of praseodymium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of samarium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of silver when measured in water ice .
the concentration of thallium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of tin when measured in water ice .
the concentration of titanium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of yttrium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of bromine when measured in snow .
the concentration of cerium when measured in snow .
the concentration of cobalt when measured in snow .
the concentration of dysprosium when measured in snow .
the concentration of europium when measured in snow .
the concentration of gadolinium when measured in snow .
the concentration of lanthanum when measured in snow .
the concentration of lithium when measured in snow .
the concentration of methanesulfonic acid when measured in snow .
the concentration of molybdenum when measured in snow .
the concentration of neodymium when measured in snow .
the concentration of niobium when measured in snow .
the concentration of praseodymium when measured in snow .
the concentration of samarium when measured in snow .
the concentration of silver when measured in snow .
the concentration of thallium when measured in snow .
the concentration of tin when measured in snow .
the concentration of titanium when measured in snow .
the concentration of yttrium when measured in snow .
the concentration of urea when measured in liquid water .
an area of tundra which is present in a region subject to alpine conditions .
an area of tundra which is present in a region subject to polar conditions .
an anatomical structure that forms all or part of a fungus .
a substance ,  usually composed primarily of carbohydrates ,  fats ,  water and / or proteins ,  that can be eaten or drunk by an animal or human being for nutrition or pleasure .
the juice products which are made from the fermented sap of the maguey  ( agave )  plant .
this food product type includes food products which are made from fermentation of juice extracted from pressed sugarcane .
a food product made of meat ,  the skeletal muscle and associated fat ,  and other edible tissues such as organs ,  livers ,  skin ,  brains ,  bone marrow ,  kidneys ,  or lungs ,  of mammals .
a food made from ground meat .
a hot dog is a moist sausage of soft ,  even texture and flavor ,  often made from advanced meat recovery or meat slurry .
cheese is a food derived from milk that is produced in a wide range of flavors ,  textures ,  and forms by coagulation of the milk protein casein .
yogurt is a food produced by bacterial fermentation of milk .
this food product type includes food products which are derived from or produced by a plant .
cabbage or headed cabbage  ( comprising several cultivars of brassica oleracea )  is a leafy green or purple biennial plant ,  grown as an annual vegetable crop for its dense - leaved heads .
the liquid extracted from the mashing process during the brewing of beer or whiskey .
cream component produced by churning and containing not less than 80% milkfat .
a large disc of smooth ,  soft ,  even runny cheese made with cow's milk .
a hard cow's milk cheese with an almost orange yellow paste .
a drum of very rich ,  creamy ,  pungent blue - veined cow's milk cheese .
a generic cheese common to many countries for several related varieties of cheese  which resemble the swiss emmental .
a mild ,  large ,  yellow ,  waxy cow's milk cheese with many holes .
a small ,  sweetish ,  soft ,  square cow's milk cheese from normandy with a yellowish - orange rind .
a disc of soft cheese made with cow's milk .
a food product made from domestic pig meat  ( sus domesticus or sus scrofa scrofa )  .
a meat that is preserved by the addition of a combination of salt ,  sugar ,  nitrates  or nitrite and or is smoked .
meat from bovines ,  especially domestic cattle  ( cows )  .
a frozen dessert usually made from dairy products ,  such as milk and cream ,  and often combined with fruits or other ingredients and flavours .
a seafood product is a vertebrate or invertibrate organism from an aquatic environment .
a fermented salty fish of korean cuisine .
a cut of meat  ( a meat chop )  cut perpendicularly to the spine of the pig and usually containing a rib or part of a vertebra ,  served as an individual portion .
a food product having tempeh as a defining ingredient
a fine powder made from cereals or other starchy food sources .
apple juice is a fruit juice made by the maceration and pressing of an apple .
any of certain cuts of meat taken from the sides ,  belly or back of a pig that may be cured and / or smoked .
a class of cow's milk ,  sheep's milk ,  or goat's milk cheeses that have had penicillium cultures added so that the final product is spotted or veined throughout with blue ,  blue - gray or blue - green mould ,  and carries a distinct smell .
the liquid left over after producing butter from cream during the churning process .
a food produced by fermenting rice ,  barley and / or soybeans ,  with salt and the mold koji - kin  ( aspergillus oryzae )  .
must is the juice of freshly pressed grapes ,  that contains various quantities of pulp ,  skins ,  stems ,  and seeds ,  called pomace or grape solids ,  which typically comprise between 7 to 23 percent of the total weight of the must .
a liquid produced from the fermentation of ethanol in a process that yields its key ingredient ,  acetic acid .
vinegar is made by malting barley ,  causing the starch in the grain to turn to maltose .
sake is a fermented rice beverage resulting from the fermentation of rice with the mold aspergillus oryzae and ,  in parallel ,  with the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae  [ wikipedia:sake ] 
a food product having fermented soyabeans as a defining ingredient
a food preserved by soaking and storing it in vinegar or brine .
a soft cheese made with cow's milk .
a fermented milk drink made from  milk .
a lipid material derived from plants .
an oil used as a nutritional supplement and is a traditional european ethnic food ,  highly regarded for its nutty flavor .
a food product which is derived from or produced by an animal that has a vertibrae .
this food product type includes beverage products which are made from the fermented sap of the maguey  ( agave )  plant .
this food product type includes food products which are made from eggs laid by the sea water fish .
a food product made from an avian egg .
a very strong smelling ,  brick - shaped ,  soft cow's milk cheese .
suidae is a family of artiodactyl mammals which are commonly called pigs ,  hogs or boars .
a relish ,  sauce ,  or seasoning  added to food to impart a particular flavour or to complement the dish .
a beverage product derived from leaves of the tea plant  ( camellia sinensis )  .
a food product deriving primarily from corn  ( maize )  .
a food product derived from or produced by a plant .
a potato food product is any product derived from potatoes .
food items that are rich in sugar ,  any one or type of which is called a confection .
a citrus fruit is botanically classified as a type of berry called a hesperidium that has a thick ,  leathery rind ,  with numerous oil glands ,  and a large flesh portion composed of several wedge - shaped sections .
the fleshy fruit  ( false berry )  of a plant of the family cucurbitaceae .
citrullus lanatus is a plant species in the family cucurbitaceae ,  a vine - like  ( scrambler and trailer )  flowering plant originally from sub - saharan africa .
food product that is 1 )  ready or nearly ready for consumption ;  2 )  usually a composite of several foods or ingredients that often belong to distinct product types ;  3 )  usually formulated ,  mixed and partially or fully cooked .
this food product type includes food products which are derived from a large ,  diverse group of photosynthetic organisms .
a product of the dry seeds of plants of the genus pisum .
a product of the  dry seeds of lens culinaris .
a product of the dry seeds of cajanus cajan .
a bambara groundnut food product is a product derived from fresh or dried beans of the bambara groundnut plant .
a product of the dry seeds of plants of the genus vicia .
a product of the dry seeds of cicer arietinum .
a product of the dry seeds of vigna unguiculata .
a dry bean food product refers to a bean product made from a phaseolus species plant whose seeds are harvested at complete maturity .
the winged bean food category covers beans of the winged bean plant
a product of the  dry seeds of vicia sativa .
pachyrhizus erosus ,  commonly known as jicama mexican yam bean ,  or mexican turnip ,  is the name of a native mexican vine ,  although the name most commonly refers to the plant's edible tuberous root .
a product of the  dry seeds of mucuna pruriens var .
a product of the  dry seeds of lupinus spp .
a dry seed of the jack - bean plant .
a product of the  dry seeds of lablab purpureus .
pulses are annual leguminous crops yielding from one to 12 grains or seeds of variable size ,  shape and colour within a pod .
a food made from an unleavened dough of wheat or buckwheat  flour and water ,  sometimes with other ingredients such as eggs and vegetable  extracts .
a pastry food product is a food product containing a pastry component .
a confection made from a concentrated solution of sugar in water ,  to which flavorings and colorants are added .
a food product derived from theobroma cacao .
a dairy product that is composed of the higher - butterfat  layer skimmed from the top of milk before homogenization .
an opague white dairy product produced by the mammary glands of female mammals .
a sausage that is cooked and then smoked or smoke - cooked .
a sausage that is smoked .
a raw sausage that is smoked .
a sausage made from meats that have not been previously cured .
a cured sausage that is fermented and dried .
a sausage made with fresh meats ,  and then fully cooked .
a cheese product made from traditional cheese and emulsifying salts ,  often with the addition of milk ,  more salt ,  preservatives ,  and food coloring .
a condiment  made from the seeds of a mustard plant  ( white or yellow mustard ,  sinapis hirta ;  brown or indian mustard ,  brassica juncea ;  or black mustard ,  brassica nigra )  .
a salad dressing that is usually mayonnaise - based ,  but which may also contain yogurt ,  sour cream ,  or creme fraiche .
a salad dressing that is an emulsion of a vegetable oil and vinegar ,  often flavored with herbs ,  spices ,  and other ingredients .
a stable emulsion of oil ,  and vinegar or lemon juice ,  with many options for embellishment with other herbs and spices .
a condiment produced by fermenting soybeans with aspergillus oryzae and aspergillus soyae molds  along with roasted grain ,  water ,  and salt .
a vegetable product such as leaves ,  flowers ,  seeds and roots that is rich in essential oils and aromatic principles .
a brewed drink prepared from roasted seeds ,  commonly called coffee beans ,  of the coffee plant .
a beverage prepared from the cured leaves of camellia sinensis by combination with hot or boiling water .
a heated beverage typically consisting of shaved chocolate  or cocoa powder ,  heated milk or water ,  and sugar .
a beverage prepated by steeping dry leaves  ( and twigs )  of yerba mate in hot water .
a fish food product includes products made from any fish species  ( aquatic vertebrate with gills and fins )  .
a dairy food product has mammilian milk or a milk component as an ingredient .
beer is a fermented cereal beverage resulting from the fermentation most commonly of malted barley  ( though wheat ,  corn ,  or rice may included )  ,  by a yeast ,  most commonly saccharomyces cerevisiae ,  and flavored by dried flowers of hops ,  humulus lupulus .
any plant food product which ,  typically ,  is constituted by intact parts from one or more annual plants cultivated as field and garden crops in the open and under glass ,  and used almost exclusively for food .
mature ovary of a plant ,  with a fleshy part of the carpel that develops with the seed to attract animals for aid in dispersal .
a one - celled fruit  ( pod )  usually dehiscing down both sutures ,  and having the seed attached along a ventral suture .
a food consisting of a round or oval body laid by the female of many animals ,  consisting of an ovum surrounded by layers of membranes and an outer casing ,  which acts to nourish and protect a developing embryo and its nutrient reserves .
a hen egg food product is any food product consisting mainly of hen eggs or derivatives .
cider ,  hard apple cider ,  or hard cider in the us ,  is an alcoholic beverage made from the fermented juice of apples .
a food that is usually sweet and often baked .
a food involving whipped and cooked milk ,  sugar and egg yolk mixtures .
a ground beef product is made of beef that has been finely chopped with a knife or a meat grinder  ( american english )  or mincing machine  ( british english )  .
a food product from a category of domestic birds kept for meat ,  eggs ,  and feathers including fowl such as chickens ,  turkeys ,  and waterfowls such as domestic ducks and geese and other meat birds such as pigeons and doves and games birds including pheasants .
a turkey meat food product is any food product made predominantly of turkey parts .
a mushroom  ( or toadstool )  is the fleshy ,  spore - bearing fruiting body of a fungus ,  typically produced above ground on soil or on its food source .
cantaloupe  ( also known as muskmelon  ( india and the united states )  ,  mushmelon ,  rockmelon  ( in australian states and in new zealand )  ,  sweet melon ,  spanspek  ( south africa )  ,  or capuchin  ( scotland )  refers to a variety of the cucumis melo species in the cucurbitaceae family .
a sauce for a salad .
a family of hard italian cheeses made from sheep milk .
an alcoholic drink  ( or alcoholic beverage )  is a drink that contains ethanol ,  a type of alcohol produced by fermentation of grains ,  fruits ,  or other sources of sugar .
a bean vegetable food product is a human or animal food product  -  such as a snap ,  shell or dry bean product  -  derived from the fruit pod ,  seed ,  or leaf of one of several genera of the flowering plant family fabaceae .
a broad bean food product is a product derived from the broad bean plant .
an edible plant fat or oil product with characteristics that consumers desire such as bland flavour and odour ,  clear appearance ,  light colour ,  stability to oxidation and suitability for frying ,  and which is the result of a refining process that removes free fatty acids .
a prepared hen egg product is a product predominantly made of hen egg that has been cooked and may only require defrosting or reheating for consumption .
a soybean food product is a product derived from the soybean plant .
a meal type is the name of an eating occasion that may have location ,  food type ,  or other customary contextual features .
a process involving the physical transformation of a food source or food product into some derived organic material or food product
the food product by quality class provides descriptors for describing food visually or via other senses ,  which is useful for tasks like food inspection where little prior knowledge of how the food came to be is available .
a lipid food product is a food product made primarily of plant or animal fat or oil
a whole dried bean is a bean resulting from natural or mechanical air drying applied to a bean or bean pod .
a whole bean is a bean having an intact seed shape and composition .
a pigeon pea food product is a food product derived from the pigeon pea plant
a product of the velvet bean plant  ( mucuna pruriens var .
a liver food product is a food product that derives from one or more liver organs .
a broad bean is a bean harvested from a broad bean plant .
a liquid prepared for consumption ,  or a product that can be combined with water or milk to make one .
a cultured dairy product is a fermented dairy product in which a microbial starter was introduced to the fermentation process .
hominy is a food produced from dried maize  ( corn )  kernels that have been treated with an alkali ,  in a process called nixtamalization  ( nextamalli is the nahuatl word for  \ "hominy \ " )  .
a fish product is a home - made or commercially produced or retail or wholesale product containing substantial amounts of freshwater or saltwater fish and / or shellfish flesh .
a meat product is a product organized by the form of  -  or processing done to  -  its meat component  ( a skeletal meat part of an animal or crustacean )  .
natural cheese ,  cured or uncured ,  cheese product  ( which is further processed )  ,  or cheese product analog .
fruit in all forms ;  includes fruit juices and fruit juice drinks ,  fruit butters ,  jellies ,  preserves ,  and related products .
food product having functional characteristics similar to milk or milk products ,  including cream product analogs ,  margarine ,  and milk analogs .
milk in all forms ,  milk - based beverage ,  cultured milk product ,  or milk or milk product analog .
semisolid or jelled food prepared from fruit or fruit juice and other ingredients prescribed for the individual products  ( 21 cfr 150 )  .
milk ,  a product derived from milk ,  or a dairy product analog ;  includes cheese and frozen dairy desserts .
cheese made from milk or milk components ,  such as cream ,  by the following process:  ( 1 )  produce curd through coagulation of milk by bacterial action and / or enzymes and / or acidification and draining of whey .
candy or other food product made with sweeteners and frequently containing nuts ,  fruits ,  starches ,  flavorings and other foods  ( 21 cfr 170 .3 ( n )  ( 9 )  .
food product prepared by heating a mixture of sweeteners and other optional ingredients according to the specific formula for each subgroup .
jelled product made from one or more fruit juices and optional ingredients .
soft candy prepared by boiling milk ,  sugar ,  salt and optional ingredients to the soft - ball stage  ( 238 degrees f . )  .
food product having functional characteristics similar to those of butter ;  it is in plastic form or liquid emulsion and contains not less than 80% fat whose origin is vegetable or rendered animal carcass fats or a mixture of these as well as other optional ingredients specified by 21 cfr 166 .110 .
fruits and vegetables in all forms .
food group having common consumption ,  functional or manufacturing characteristics ,  e .g .
candy prepared by cooking a mixture of water ,  sugars and optional ingredients to a temperature of 250 degrees f . or less .
food product having functional characteristics similar to a butter product ;  it may be nutritionally equivalent or inferior to the product it purports to resemble .
renamed from *product type ,  codex alimentarius* in langual 2008 .
a food product type is a class of food products that is differentiated by its food composition ,  processing and / or consumption characteristics .
codex alimentarius ,  volume 2  -  1993 ,  section 2:  pesticide residues in food . \ n \ nthe codex classification of food and animal feed commodities moving in trade and the description of the various items and groups of food and animal feedstuffs included in the present document have been developed by the codex committee on pesticide residues .
vegetables are foods derived from many different kinds of plants mostly annual and usually cultivated ,  commonly known by custom and tradition as  \ "vegetables \ " . \ nin several countries ,  some of these commodities grown on large areas are distinguished as  \ "field crops \ " or arable crops e .g .
pulses are derived from the mature seeds naturally or artificially dried ,  of leguminous plants known as beans  ( dry )  and peas  ( dry )  . \ nthe seeds in the pods are protected from most pesticides applied during the growing season except pesticides which show a systemic action .
the group includes marine or freshwater fish ,  molluscs ,  crustaceans ,  and other fauna such as reptiles ,  insects or frogs not in the meats group .
includes fish offal ;  a food product whose predominant constituent is fish  ( e .g .
alcoholic or non - alcoholic beverage ;  excludes milk and milk - based beverages .
beverage containing no more than 0 .5% alcohol ;  it may be flavoured ,  sweetened or carbonated ;  includes soft drinks and steeped beverages ;  excludes milk in all forms ,  fruit juices and vegetable juices .
beverage prepared by extracting flavour and other components from food sources by percolation and / or immersion in water ,  usually at near - boiling temperature .
efg group 32 ,  eurocode - 2 group 12 .
this subgroup includes multicomponent meals ,  sauces ,  retail salads ,  desserts ,  soups ,  snacks and other foods where similarity of the product type is more significant than the source of the principal ingredient ( s )  .
a liquid food made by simmering meat ,  poultry ,  seafood or vegetables ,  being clear or thickened to the consistency of a thin puree or having milk or cream added ,  and often containing pieces of solid food such as meat ,  shellfish ,  pasta or vegetables .
the global system 1  ( gs1 )  global product classification  ( gpc )  is a system that gives buyers and sellers a common language for grouping products in the same way ,  everywhere in the world .$br / $ \ nthe gs1 gpc classification in facet a is currently updated based on june 2017 release of gs1 gpc standard for food / beverage / tobacco ,  except for codes pertaining to tobacco .
food and drugs ,  title 21 ,  code of federal regulations .
a member of the group of eukaryotic organisms in the kingdom fungi that includes unicellular microorganisms such as yeasts and molds ,  as well as multicellular fungi that produce familiar fruiting forms known as mushrooms .
melon is a name given to various members of the plant family *cucurbitaceae* with sweet flavored ,  fleshy fruit e .g .
a multicellular eukaryote organism of the kingdom plantae .
a food source is a plant or animal from which a food product or  component is derived .
*basidiomycota* is one of two large phyla that ,  together with the *ascomycota* ,  constitute the subkingdom *dikarya*  ( often referred to as the  \ "higher fungi \ " )  within the kingdom fungi .
*cucumis* is a genus of twining ,  tendril - bearing plants in the *cucurbitaceae* family which includes the cucumber  ( *cucumis sativus* )  ,  muskmelons  ( *cucumis melo* ,  including cantaloupe and honeydew )  ,  the horned melon  ( *cucumis metuliferus* )  ,  and the west indian gherkin  ( *cucumis anguria* )  .
the *cucurbitaceae* ,  also called cucurbits and the gourd family ,  are a plant family consisting of about 965 species in around 95 genera ,  the most important of which are:  \ n  *cucurbita*  -  squash ,  pumpkin ,  zucchini ,  some gourds ;   \ n  *lagenaria*  -  calabash ,  and others that are inedible ;   \ n  *citrullus*  -  watermelon  ( *c . lanatus ,  c . colocynthis* )  and others ;   \ n  *cucumis*  -  cucumber  ( *c . sativus* )  ,  various melons ;   \ n  *luffa*  -  luffa ,  loofah
a broad term that includes the nutritive sweeteners dextrose ,  fructose ,  galactose ,  lactose ,  maltose and sucrose ,  which are simple carbohydrates with molecules composed of one or two saccharide units .
extract ,  concentrate or isolate high in sugar ,  oligosaccharide or polysaccharide .
soft sugar whose crystals are covered by a film of refined dark syrup that imparts color ,  flavor ,  and moisture .
a physical - chemical component separated from the food source or its parts by extraction ,  centrifugation ,  filtration ,  heat processing ,  expressing or a similar process .
the serum or watery part of milk that is separated from the thicker or more coagulable part or curd ,  espcially in the process of making cheese ;  it contains lactose ,  minerals and lactalbumin .
the oil produced by pressing or extracting lipids from plant seeds  ( e .g .
a liquid that flows very easily at room temperature .
a state of matter between a solid and a gas ,  in which a substance has the capacity to flow and conforms to the shape of the container .
used to specifically characterize a food product based on the treatment or processes applied to the product or any indexed ingredient .
a fat or oil derived from vegetable material
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
a scalar measurement datum is a measurement datum that is composed of two parts ,  numerals and a unit label .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
an image is an affine projection to a two dimensional surface ,  of measurements of some quality of an entity or entities repeated at regular intervals across a spatial range ,  where the measurements are represented as color and luminosity on the projected on surface .
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
an information content entity consisting of a two dimensional arrangement of information content entities such that the arrangement itself is about something .
a data set that is an aggregate of data recording some measurement at a number of time points .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
an environmental control function is a function that regulates a contained environment within specified parameter ranges .
a material entity that is designed to perform a function in a scientific investigation ,  but is not a reagent .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's scalar absolute value of the rate of change of the bearer's position .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
a composite chromatic quality composed of hue ,  saturation and intensity parts .
a luminous flux quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's emitting longer wavelength light following the absorption of shorter wavelength radiation ;  fluorescence is common with aromatic compounds with several rings joined together .
a chromatic property that is the relative position of different hues or degrees of saturation .
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's orientation in space .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the number of the bearer's repetitive actions in a particular time .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to pressure ,  being broken ,  or pierced
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing or displaying a distinctive feature in type or degree or effect or force .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's molecules being are aerially dispersed and perceived by an odorant receptor .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting repetition of placement of its parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to detect or perceive external stimulation .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a morphological quality pertaining to the degree to which an object contains an opening ,  aperture ,  orifice or vent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
a quality in which events occur in sequence .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a speed which is relatively high .
a speed which is relatively low .
an age which is relatively high .
an age which is relatively low .
a color hue with low wavelength of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between green and indigo ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 420 to 490 nanometers .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of or the relationships between its repeated parts lack consistency .
a color quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking color .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction from a higher to a lower point .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction that is similar to the direction of an object to the north when it faces east .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction that is similar to the direction of an object to the north when it faces west .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction from a lower to a higher point .
a frequency which is relatively high .
a frequency which is relatively low .
a hardness quality of being rigid and resistant to pressure .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or being marked by a curve or smoothly rounded bend .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a horizontal surface without a slope ,  tilt ,  or curvature .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being such that every part of the surface or the circumference is equidistant from the center .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's once or in or a few unpredictable instances .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking or not exhibiting variation .
a length quality which is relatively large .
a length quality which is relatively small .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a thickness which is relatively high .
a thickness which is relatively low .
a volume which is relatively high .
a volume which is relatively low .
a width which is relatively small .
a width which is relatively large .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording blocked passage or view .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording not completed blocked passage or view .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording unobstructed passage or view .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two sides ;  two - sided .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being overfilled .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being upright in position or posture .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having mistakenly taken course ,  way ,  or passage ;  ill - routed .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being stretched out and lying at full length along the ground .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being uninterrupted in time ,  sequence ,  substance ,  or extent .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by breaks or interruptions .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance from one side of an object to another side which is opposite .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a somewhat elongated form with approximately parallel sides .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval with two axes of symmetry ,  as produced by a conical section .
a color consisting of dark orange ,  red ,  of very low intensity .
an optical quality which obtains by virtue of the ability of the bearer to absorb visible light .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being clear ;  not transmitting or reflecting light or radiant energy .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking opacity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sinuate margin and rippled surface .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to admit the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a permeability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable to be permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a permeability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of being permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a porosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of admitting the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a porosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of admitting the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a physical quality of a liquid inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to internal resistance to flow .
a viscosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having viscosity .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence is exerted by the bearer's mass per unit size .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's velocity multiplied by its mass .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of force per unit area it exerts .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the rate of change of the bearer's velocity in either speed or direction .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of ratio of the bearer's output to the bearer's input .
a physical quality that exists by virtue of the rate of flow of the bearer across a given surface .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to recover its size and shape after deformation in any way .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably higher than its width .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting concentration .
a concentration which relatively low .
a concentration which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a concentration which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting density .
an elasticity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to recover its size and shape after deformation in any way .
an elasticity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability to recover its size and shape after deformation in any way .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the middle relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the side relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located more centrally than another entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being narrow ,  with the two opposite margins parallel .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter y .
an odor quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking odour .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits variation or change .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's power or force .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located further from a more centrally located entity .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
a scalar optical quality which obtains by the magnitude of the light emitted by the bearer .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to varying or changing .
a temperature which is relatively high .
a temperature which is relatively low .
a 2 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's two dimensional extent .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lack of distinct morphology .
a density quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence exerted by the bearer's mass on a given area .
a density quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence exerted by the bearer's mass on a given volume .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting low opacity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having distinct structure .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking distinct structure .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the rate of the bearer's angular movement about an axis ;  the angle rotated in a given time .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to rise or float in a fluid medium such as water or air .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
a concentration quality inhering in a medium by virtue of the bearer's tendency to hydronate a specific reference base .
an medium acidity quality inhering in a solution by virtue of the bearer's a high concentration of h +  ions .
an medium acidity quality inhering in a solution by virtue of the bearer's a low concentration of h +  ions .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's decomposition into component parts .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer includes all its components .
a broken quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being broken open .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's being encrusted or impregnated with calcium carbonate  ( chebi:3311 )  .
a sensitivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's dependence on oxygen .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's dependence on oxygen .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's independence on oxygen .
a depth which is relatively low .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an oblique or slanted direction .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being thicker or more closely packed together ;  pressed tightly together .
a quality of a single physical entity that arises by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a functionality quality held by the bearer when the latter is able to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a physical quality inhering in sound by virtue of the bearer's travelling speed in a given medium under specified conditions .
a molecular quality that inheres in a molecular entity by virtue of the bearer's disposition to dissolve in a liquid .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability of being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability of being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity characterized by particles arranged such that their shape and volume are relatively stable .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity consisting of particles that have neither a defined volume nor defined shape .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
a functionality quality which is held by the bearer when the latter is able to perform additional or different function ( s )  .
a mass which is lower than normal or average .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being spread out or scattered about or divided up .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's motion characteristic .
a pressure which is relatively low .
a pressure which is relatively high .
a variability which is relatively low .
a variability which is relatively high .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to transmit of an entity through a medium .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a degree of bending .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's forming or resembling an arch .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's downward or backward or inward dimenision .
a depth quality which is relatively high .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond a surface or boundary .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted in form .
a functionality quality held by the bearer when the latter exhibits decreased ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a functional quality held by the bearer when the latter exhibits increased ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being gathered or tending to gather into a mass or whole .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distributed or spread over a considerable extent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the front of an organism relative to another entity .
a quality inhering into a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond its surface or boundary into the surface or boundary of another entity .
a quality inhering into a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond its surface or boundary and outwards in relation to the physical space occupied by another entity .
an 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the length of the closed curve of a circle .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a proper spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a improper spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of osmoles of solute per liter of solution .
a osmolarity which is relatively high .
a distribution which is relatively high .
a distribution which is relatively low .
an efficiency which is relatively low .
an efficiency which is relatively high .
an efficiency quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having efficiency .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to exert an attractive or repulsive force on other entities .
a magnetic quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to exert magnitism .
an elevation which is relatively high .
an elevation which is relatively low .
a viscosity which relatively high .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in two dimensions .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
an 1 - d extent quality inhering in two - dimensional bearer by virtue of being equal to the distance around it .
a perimeter which is relatively high .
a perimeter which is relatively low .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to lose an entitity by natural process .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to shed body parts .
a quality inhering in a plant by virtue of the bearer's disposition to shed foliage .
a quality inhering in a plant by virtue of the bearer's disposition to not shed any body part .
a quality inhering in a plant by virtue of the bearer's disposition to retain foliage .
a quality inhering in a plant by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being between evergeen and deciduous .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a radiation quality inhering in a radioactive substance by virtue of its transformation  ( disintegration )  rate .
a radiation quality inhering in bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting or being caused by radioactivity .
a conductivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to spontaneous transfer of thermal energy from a region of higher temperature to a region of lower temperature .
a conductivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to convey electricity .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing granules .
a strength which is relatively low .
a thickness quality which lacks pattern .
a density which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a shape resembling a dome .
a density which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on left side of from the a another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on right side of a another entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting disturbance of its smoothness or regularity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer's being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality that is relatively high .
a wetness quality that is relatively low .
a flow that is relatively low .
a fluid flow that is relatively high .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing acid  ( hydrogen ions )  .
an acidity which is relatively high .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being situated at right angles to the horizon .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in the plane of the horizon .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a consistently - sized round cross section .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter u .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's disposition to being water - repellent ;  tending to repel and not absorb water .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking affinity for water ;  tending to repel and not absorb water ;  tending not to dissolve in or mix with or be wetted by water .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's disposition to having an affinity for water ;  it is readily absorbing or dissolving in water .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to having a strong affinity for water ;  tending to dissolve in ,  mix with ,  or be wetted by water .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into three branches .
a circumference which is relatively low .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction that is similar to the direction of an object to the south when it faces north .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction that is similar to the direction of an object to the north when it faces south .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one direction only .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two directions .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction approximating the shape of a circle .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's participation in movement .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned on opposite sides on the same plane .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits size variation or change .
a variability of size which is relatively low .
a variability of size which is relatively high .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having at least one salient angle on the margin .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being kept below its freezing point .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's passing into solution .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
a complete three dimensional shape in which for every line connecting pair of points on the object is within the object .
a complete three dimensional shape in which there is a line connecting pair of points on the object that lies outside the object .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
a structural quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing hollow areas .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a cone  ( a 3 - d shape with a round cross section that tapers )  .
an area which is relatively high .
an area which is relatively low .
a shape inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being elongated and cylindrical .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's delimited by a surface with holes .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's layered configuration .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a layered configuration .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an empty space or cavity within .
a broken quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being seperated into two contiguous wholes .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being at the edge or boundary of a related entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing the form of a thin plate sheet or layer .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being fit to be eaten .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being suitable for use as food .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer not being suitable for use as food .
a density quality which lacks pattern .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a improper spatial positioning towards an additional entity .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a improper spatial positioning away from an additional entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being free of curves ,  bends ,  or angles .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being small or narrow in circumference or width in proportion to length or height .
a quality inhering in a bearer that is shaped in the form of a fan .
an angular shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a single angle in its length giving the bearer the form of the letter v .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located far  ( not close to )  in space in relation to another entity .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's rate of change of the position .
a physical quality inhering in a fluid  ( liquid or gas )  by virtue of the amount of fluid which passes through a given surface per unit time .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being roundish ,  flattish shape ,  possibly with a slightly angled edge .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's surface becoming more extended in a plane .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being partially upright in position or posture .
a shape that inheres in a 3 dimensional entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located in a position equidistant from edges .
a structural quality of the collection or massing of one physical object within another physical object .
an increased number of physical objects that are accumulated within another physical object usually as a result of a failure to break down or remove objects in a timely manner .
an accumulation which is relative low .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located at the same continuous distance relative to another object .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's underlying structure being capable of change .
a cylindrical shape that is hollow .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a shape constituting a transition between a rectangle and a circle ;  a closed curve ,  of which the circle and ellipse are special cases ,  whose parametric equation is x = a .cos2 / rt ,  y = b .cos2 / rt
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the base of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the stalk of an organism relative to another entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's upper parts die back to the rootstock at the end of the growing season .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's width being notably higher than its length .
recurrent and often more or less cyclic alteration .
flattened from above downward ;  below the normal level or the level of the surrounding parts .
open to view or not covered by another entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer touching another entity along a border or with a projecting part .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's position being displaced from a reference point .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located at the same level as another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer bring gradually worn away .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of some aspect of the bearer extending to the position of another entity .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's increased rate of change of the position .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's decreased rate of change of the position .
positional quality in which an entity is located outside of another entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a slanting direction  ( neither perpendicular nor parallel )  relative to another entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being level or even with another surface .
a variability quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer having a variable number or count of an entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer possessing an uninterrupted or unbroken connection or spatial distribution relative to the position of another entity .
a quality inhering in air by virtue of the partial pressure exerted by the bearer's water vapour content .
an increase in humidity .
an decrease in humidity .
the propensity of a material to undergo combustion .
an increase in combustibility .
a quality of an object that has a value that is normal or average .
a position which is relatively normal or average
a pressure which is relatively normal or average
a size quality which is relatively normal or average
an area which is relatively normal or average
a depth quality which is relatively normal or average
a volume which is relatively normal or average
a width which is relatively normal or average
a speed which is relatively normal or average
a velocity which is relatively normal or average
the four cardinal directions or cardinal points are the directions north ,  east ,  south ,  and west ,  commonly denoted by their initials ,  n ,  e ,  s ,  w . east and west are at right angles to north and south ,  with east being in the clockwise direction of rotation from north and west being directly opposite east .
north is one of the four compass points or cardinal directions .
east is one of the four cardinal directions or points of the compass .
south is one of the four cardinal directions or compass points .
west is one of the four cardinal directions or points of the compass .
the number of repeated events per unit time ,  occurring in a repeating series .
a material entity that consists of two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids .
a collection of organisms ,  all of the same species ,  that live in the same place .
a multi - species collection of organisms of at least two different species ,  living in a particular area .
a material entity that has as parts two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids of the same species and no members of any other species .
a collection of organisms that consists of two or more organisms from at least two species .
a material entity that is one or more organisms ,  viruses or viroids .
an ecological community which is composed of co - existing populations of microbial organisms that interact ,  directly or indirectly ,  such that they impact one another's ecological fitness .
a plant structure  ( po:0005679 )  which is a whole organism .
a portion of plant substance  ( po:0025161 )  composed of cutin  ( po:0025385 )  ,  a polyester matrix of hydroxy -  and hydroxy epoxy fatty acids c16 and c18 chains ,  embedded and overlayed with cuticular wax  ( po:0025386 )  and forming a layer on the surface of a plant epidermis  ( po:0005679 )  .
a shoot axis  ( po:0025029 )  that is the most distal part of a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  and has as parts a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  and the youngest primordia  ( po:0025127 )  .
a portion of shoot system epidermis  ( po:0006035 )  that is part of a shoot axis  ( po:0025029 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  which is the organogenic region of the meristem ,  characterized by higher rates of cell division .
a native plant cell  ( po:0025606 )  synthesizing protoplasm and producing new cells by division and with only a primary cell wall .
a primordium  ( po:0025127 )  that develops from a root anlagen  ( po:0025433 )  and is committed to the development of a root  ( po:0009005 )  .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  composed of epidermal cells  ( po:0004013 )  that develops from the protoderm  ( po:0006210 )  and covers the surface of a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  .
a lateral plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  produced by a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  .
a portion of phyllome epidermis  ( po:0025157 )  that is part of a leaf  ( po:0025034 )  .
a portion of epidermis  ( po:0005679 )  that is part of a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  and arises from the meristem l1 layer  ( po:0009020 )  .
a portion of epidermis  ( po:0005679 )  that is part of a root  ( po:0009005 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is part of a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is the outer layer of an apical meristem  ( po:0020144 )  ,  or the outer layer of a plant embryo proper  ( po:0000001 )  ,  and gives rise to a portion of epidermis  ( po:0005679 )  .
a plant structure development stage  ( po:0009012 )  that has as primary participant a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  .
a cell which is a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  .
a plant axis  ( po:0025004 )  that lacks shoot axis nodes  ( po:0005004 )  and usually grows indeterminately .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that produces shoot - borne portions of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  and the plant structures  ( po:0009011 )  that arise from them .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that consists predominantly of similarly specialized plant cells  ( po:0009002 )  of one or more types .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that is a functional unit ,  is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  and includes portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types that derive from a common developmental path .
a plant anatomical entity  ( po:0025131 )  that is ,  or was ,  part of a plant ,  or was derived from a part of a plant .
a stage in the life of a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  during which the plant structure undergoes developmental processes .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  in which plant cells  ( po:0009002 )  have retained their embryonic characteristics ,  or have reverted to them secondarily ,  and that divide to produce new cells that can undergo differentiation to form mature tissues ,  i .e .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is the outermost layer of a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  and gives rise to a shoot system epidermis  ( po:0006035 )  .
a maximal portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  located at a shoot apex  ( po:0000037 )  or root tip  ( po:0000025 )  .
a shoot system meristem  ( po:0006079 )  formed at the apex of the shoot axis  ( po:0025029 )  ,  including those originating from an axillary bud meristem  ( po:0000232 )  .
an axial plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  .
a collective plant structure  ( po:0025497 )  that is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  and is composed of two or more adjacent plant organs  ( po:0009008 )  and the associated portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that produces root meristems  ( po:0006085 )  ,  the plant structures  ( po:0009011 )  that arise from them and the parts thereof .
a plant axis  ( po:0025004 )  that is part of a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  .
a phyllome  ( po:0006001 )  that is not associated with a reproductive structure .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
a primordium  ( po:0025127 )  that develops from a phyllome anlagen  ( po:0025430 )  and is part of a shoot apex  ( po:0000037 )  and is committed to the development of a phyllome  ( po:0006001 )  .
an anatomical entity that is or was part of a plant .
a portion of shoot system epidermis  ( po:0006035 )  that is part of a phyllome  ( po:0006001 )  .
a portion of organism substance that is or was part of a plant .
a maximal whole plant development stage .
a portion of plant substance  ( po:0025161 )  that is the inner layer of a plant cuticle  ( po:0000022 )  ,  and is composed of a polyester matrix of hydroxy -  and hydroxy epoxy fatty acid c16 and c18 chains .
a portion of plant substance  ( po:0025161 )  comprised predominantly of very long chain aliphatic lipids and is part of a plant cuticle  ( po:0000022 )  .
a portion of plant substance  ( po:0025161 )  that is the inner layer of a plant cuticle  ( po:0000022 )  ,  composed primarily of cutin  ( po:0025385 )  ,  embedded and overlayed with cuticular wax  ( po:0025386 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is part of a peripheral zone  ( po:0000225 )  of a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  and will give rise to a phyllome primordium  ( po:0025128 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is committed to the development of a root primordium  ( po:0005029 )  .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that has as parts two or more portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single structural unit demarcated by primarily bona - fide boundaries from other structural units of different types .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  and includes two or more adjacent plant organs  ( po:0009008 )  or adjacent cardinal organ parts  ( po:0025001 )  ,  along with any associated portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  .
a portion of plant substance  ( po:0025161 )  that is an aqueous solution that can be transported through the apoplast  ( go:0048046 )  or symplast  ( go:0055044 )  .
a portion of plant substance  ( po:0025161 )  that consists of a complex mixture of organic aromatic compounds such as mono -  ,  sesqui -  ,  and diterpenoids .
a plant cell  ( po:0009002 )  that is either part of a multicellular whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  'in vivo' or a unicellular organism 'in natura'  ( i .e .
a whole plant development stage  ( po:0007033 )  that has as primary participant a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  during the interval between fertilization  ( or apogamy )  and death .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
an organ of sight that includes the camera - type eyeball and supporting structures such as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the conjunctiva ,  the eyelid .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
anatomical projection that protrudes from the skin .
one of the epidermal growths that form the distinctive outer covering ,  or plumage ,  on birds .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
an eye with one concave chamber .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
a part of an organ that constitutes a distinct modular sub - unit .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
any part or collection of parts of the central or peripheral nervous system .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements and articular elements that are part of an individual subdivision of the organism .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the cns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections ,  and including nearby cells that share the same cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism )  [ fma , modified ]  .
common chamber into which the intestines and excretory system opens .
endoderm - lined chamber that develops as pouch - like dilation of the caudal end of the hindgut and receives the allantois ventrally and two mesonephric ducts laterally ;  caudally it ends blindly at the cloacal membrane formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm [ mp ]  .
the ventral part of the cloaca remaining after septation of the rectum ,  which further develops into part of the bladder ,  part of the prostatic part of the male urethra and the urethra and vestibule in females
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
a bodily fluid consisting of the expulsed contents of the stomach disgorged through the mouth or nose that happens as a result of a vomit reflex .
amniotic fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of watery liquid surrounding and cushioning a growing fetus within the amnion .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
pleural effusion is a bodily fluid that is produced in exess and accumulates in the pleural cavity ,  the fluid - filled space that surrounds the lungs .
a bodily fluid secreted from the body via the mouth or nose .
pus is a bodily fluid consisting of a whitish - yellow or yellow substance produced during inflammatory responses of the body that can be found in regions of pyogenic bacterial infections .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
an embryo that is at the late embryonic stage ;  this stage covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
the wall of the digestive tract .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
a set of midline structures surrounding the brainstem of the mammalian brain ,  originally described anatomically ,  e .g . ,  hippocampal formation ,  amygdala ,  hypothalamus ,  cingulate cortex .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
a semifluid mass of partly digested food expelled by the stomach into the duodenum .
chyle is a bodily fluid consisting of a milky fluid consisting of lymph and emulsified fats ;  formed in the small intestine during digestion of ingested fats .
mucus is a bodily fluid consisting of a slippery secretion of the lining of the mucous membranes in the body .
interstitial fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of a solution which bathes and surrounds the cells of multicellular animals .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
anterior part of the embryonic digestive tract that develops into a mouth .
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
the retina is the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an organ that detects light .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the renal system in an anatomical system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products . .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
an enclosed ,  cable - like bundle of axons in the peripheral nervous system originating in a nerve root in the central nervous system  ( or a condensed nervous structure )  connecting with peripheral structures .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
the caudalmost subdivision of a digestive tract .
in the developing vertebrate ,  the neural tube is the embryo's precursor to the central nervous system ,  which comprises the brain and spinal cord .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a zone of skin that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
transudate contained in the pleural cavity .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
secretion produced by a sweat gland .
joint fluid is a transudate of plasma that is actively secreted by synovial cells .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
mucosal layer that lines the intestine .
an anatomical wall that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
epithelial layer that lines the intestine .
the anus and surrounding regions .
a clear ,  colorless ,  bodily fluid ,  that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain and spinal cord .
a zone of skin that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organism subdivision that includes the pectoral girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a face  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
a subdivision of the head that has as parts the layers deep to the surface of the anterior surface ,  including the mouth ,  eyes ,  and nose  ( when present )  .
a vessel that contains or conveys lymph ,  that originates as an interfibrillar or intercellular cleft or space in a tissue or organ ,  and that if small has no distinct walls or walls composed only of endothelial cells and if large resembles a vein in structure [ bto ]  .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
a tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
the ciliary muscle is a ring of smooth muscle in the middle layer of the eye that controls the eye's accommodation for viewing objects at varying distances and regulates the flow of aqueous humour through schlemm's canal .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons .
subdivision of head that consists of the lower jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens
the pigmented middle of the three concentric layers that make up an eye ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body and choroid [ wp , edited ]  .
the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye
the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris ,  composed of ciliary muscle and ciliary processes
vascular layer containing connective tissue ,  of the eye lying between the retina and the sclera .
a double layer covering the ciliary body that produces aqueous humor .
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
a transparent ,  semigelatinous substance that fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina
gelatinous mucoid tissue that is composed of vitreous humor and fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina [ mp , modified ] 
the chamber in the eyeball enclosing the vitreous humor ,  bounded anteriorly by the lens and ciliary body and posteriorly by the posterior wall of the eyeball [ bto , modified ]  .
any of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive ) 
any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive ) 
a layer of epithelial cells that is part of the eye .
a fluid produced in the oral cavity by salivary glands ,  typically used in predigestion ,  but also in other functions .
fatty lubricant matter secreted by sebaceous glands ,  and made of made of triglyceride oils ,  wax ,  squalene ,  and metabolytes of fat - producing cells [ bto , wp ]  .
a network formed by blood vessels and the tela choroidea which secretes csf into the ventricular spaces .
the most anterior region the brain including both the telencephalon and diencephalon .
part of the forebrain consisting of paired olfactory bulbs and cerebral hemispheres .
the division of the forebrain that develops from the foremost primary cerebral vesicle .
a specialized brain region of the ventral diencephalon arising near the end of the segmentation period ;  the embryonic hypothalamic region will give rise to the posterior pituitary gland as well as a number of brain nuclei .
an emulsion of fat globules within a fluid that is secreted by the mammary gland during lactation .
the liquid component of blood ,  in which erythrocytes are suspended .
vital aqueous secretion of the liver that is formed by hepatocytes and modified down stream by absorptive and secretory properties of the bile duct epithelium .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
a nervous system structure composed primarily of nerve cell bodies  ( somas )  .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
the postcranial subdivision of skeleton structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins ;  in human consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis [ zfa + fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton which which consists of all the skeletal elements in in the pectoral and pelvic appendage complexes [ cjm ]  .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the thin membranous structure between the two heart atria or the thick muscular structure between the two heart ventricles .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
anatomical cluster consisting of the hematopoietic system and the lymphoid system ,  or its analogs .
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by an articular capsule which encloses a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
a brain ventricle that is part of a telencephalon .
the yellow or brown waxy secretions produced by vestigial apocrine sweat glands in the external ear canal [ mesh ]  .
part of choroid plexus contained in the lateral ventricle
a neural nucleus that is part of the brain .
somites are spheres of epithelial cells that form sequentially along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo through mesenchymal to epithelial transition of the presomitic mesoderm .
a specialized region of ectoderm found between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm and composed of highly migratory pluripotent cells that delaminate in early embryonic development from the dorsal neural tube and give rise to an astounding variety of differentiated cell types [ mp ]  .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
anatomical system that is involved in the production of hematopoietic cells .
lymph is the fluid that is formed when interstitial fluid enters the conduits of the lymphatic system through lymph capillaries [ wp ]  .
anatomical system that protects the body from foreign substances ,  cells ,  and tissues by producing the immune response and that includes especially the thymus ,  spleen ,  lymphoid tissue ,  lymphocytes including the b cells and t cells ,  and antibodies .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
an epithelium that is part of the mouth and lines the oral cavity ,  typically stratified squamous ,  and may be para -  ,  ortho -  or non -  keratinized .
a blood vessel that is part of a choroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the lymphatic system in vertebrates is a network of conduits that carry a clear fluid called lymph .
skeletal tissue with a collagen - rich extracellular matrix vascularized ,  mineralized with hydroxyapatite and typically including osteocytes located in lacunae that communicate with one another by cell processes  ( in canaliculi )  .
an epithelium that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
anatomical surface structure found in many aquatic organisms .
one of a series of paired bulges that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
anatomical divisons of the brain according to one or more criteria ,  e .g .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
blood islands are structures in the developing embryo which lead to many different parts of the circulatory system .
a horseshoe - shaped thickening of the endoderm at the cranial  ( rostral )  end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells which ,  together with the notochord ,  induces the formation of the neural plate from the overlying ectodermal cells and contributes mesodermal type cells to the surrounding tissue
the intermediate mesoderm is located between the lateral mesoderm and the paraxial mesoderm .
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye [ zfa ]  .
a thickened portion of ectoderm which serves as the precursor to the lens .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
the paraxial mesoderm is the mesoderm located bilaterally adjacent to the notochord and neural tube [ go ] 
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardical precursors laterally .
ventral somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton [ xao ]  .
neural crest cells  ( nccs )  originating in the anterior part of the developing embryo and residing between the mid - diencephalon and the forming hindbrain ;  cranial nccs migrate dorsolaterally to form the craniofacial mesenchyme that differentiates into various craniofacial cartilages and bones ,  cranial neurons ,  glia ,  and connective tissues of the face ;  these cells enter the pharyngeal pouches and arches where they give rise to thymic cells ,  bones of the middle ear and jaw  ( mandible )  ,  and the odontoblasts of the tooth primordia ;  like their counterparts in the trunk ,  cranial nccs also contribute to the developing peripheral nervous system ,  along with the pigmented cell  ( i .e .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
portion of tissue consisting of loosely organized undifferentiated mesodermal cells that give rise to such structures as connective tissues ,  blood ,  lymphatics ,  bone ,  and cartilage [ xao ]  .
upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible  ( when present in the organism )  .
anatomical structure that is part of the head consisting entirely of cranium and mandible [ wp ]  .
an organ involved in reproduction
septum that divides the internal chambers  ( camerae )  of the shell of a cephalopod ,  namely nautiloids or ammonoids .
an epithelium that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the lower part of the mouth .
a blood island that is part of a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
an epithelium that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi
an adipose tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of the trunk region of the body  ( not to be confused with a nerve trunk )  .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a facial skeleton  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
portion of tissue in the nervous system which consists of neurons and glial cells ,  and may also contain parts of the vasculature .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
a nerve that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a hindbrain .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing gonad  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial component of the choroid plexus .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues ,  with tube shape and organization varying from the single - celled excretory organ in caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system .
an epithelium that lines the lumen of the digestive tract .
the brain ventricles or their associated choroid plexuses
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
one of the system of communicating cavities in the brain that are continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord ,  that like it are derived from the medullary canal of the embryo ,  that are lined with an epithelial ependyma ,  and that contain a serous fluid
the subdivision of the face that includes the eye  ( eyeball plus adnexa such as eyelids )  and the orbit of the skull and associated parts of the face such as the eyebrows ,  if present
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
a vasculature that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine and those concerned with reproduction .
the optic vesicle is the evagination of neurectoderm that precedes formation of the optic cup [ go ]  .
the first recognizable structure derived from the heart field
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the primary beating heart tube .
an epithelial tube that will give rise to the mature heart .
a cardiac chamber surrounds an enclosed cavity within the heart
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
a portions of the gut that is derived from endoderm .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lymphatic vessel  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
any muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a lateral ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is part of the eye region .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a cone - like structure that is formed when myocardial progenitor cells of the heart field fuse at the midline .
a lymphatic vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the first of the series of pharyngeal arches that develop into jaw bones or their homologs ,  and their associated nerves and arteries
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the musculature of the body in the pectoral girdle region .
any collection of muscles that is part of a face .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a projection or outgrowth of tissue from a larger body or organ .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
a network of blunt ended vessels lacking direct connection to the blood vascular system .
a vascular network consisting of blood vessels .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
a transverse unitary subdivision of the neural tube that shares a common dorsoventral structure  ( floor ,  basal ,  alar ,  and roof plates )  ,  but each having differential molecular identities and fates ;  they comprise the secondary prosencephalon ,  diencephalon  ( prosomeres )  ,  the midbrain  ( mesomeres )  ,  and the hindbrain  ( rhombomeres )  .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
organism at the gastrula stage .
a specialized form of connective tissue in which the extracellular matrix is firm ,  providing the tissue with resilience ,  and / or mineralized and that functions in mechanical and structural support .
dermis - derived entity that is made of skeletal tissue .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
a bone that is part of a cranium .
any bone that is part of the lower jaw skeleton .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract
a mucosa that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
any of the tissue layers that comprise a blood vessel .
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
the fetal urogenital sinus  ( from which the prostate derives )  is a simple cylinder of stratified basal epithelium ,  surrounded by mesenchyme and positioned between the embryonic bladder and pelvic urethra
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
an epithelium surrounding a gonad .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
an organ that is part of a immune system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
any anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
a set of structures containing cerebrospinal fluid in the brain .
a structure found in the walls of the ventricles of the brain ,  consisting of part of the meninges  ( pia mater in mammals )  plus ependyma [ cjm ]  .
tela chorioidea that lines the telencephalic ventricle .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
a layer in the central nervous system that lines system of communicating cavities in the brain and spinal cord .
an array of photoreceptors and any supporting cells found in an eye .
a transparent structure that is part of a visual sense organ ,  the function of which is to direct or focus light onto a photoreceptor array .
the part of the digestive system that excludes the hepatobiliary system .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
a somite that is part of a trunk .
a vascular network formed by frequent anastomoses between the blood vessels  ( arteries or veins )  of a part .
an epithelium that is part of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelium that is part of a lens vesicle .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone ,  usually for passage of blood vessels or nerves .
a acellular anatomical structure that is the bounding layer of a anatomical structure .
an acellular membrane that is part of the epithelium ,  lies adjacent to the epithelial cells ,  and is the fusion of the the basal lamina and the reticular lamina .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
the paired ventral prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo ;  the two prominences unite ventrally and fuse to form the mandible and lower lip
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of cranial skeleton ,  set of all vertebrae ,  set of all ribs and sternum [ fma ,  modified ]  .
the laminar structure of the heart
any of the arteries or veins that supply blood to the heart or return blood from the heart muscles to the circulation
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
the foremost region of the future forebrain that develops into the diencephalon .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
future brain vesicle that gives rise to telencephalic ventricle / lateral ventricles and 3rd ventricle
a segment of the eyeball that is filled with refractive media
body substance in a liquid or semi - solid state in the eyeball which serves to refract light .
liquid components of living organisms .
a substance that is secreted by a mammary gland .
a tube that is part of a excretory system .
an organ system subdivision that is a network of vessels capable of removing accumulating protein and fluid from the interstitial space and returning it to the vascular space .
the pharynx is the part of the digestive system immediately posterior to the mouth [ go ]  .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a hypothalamus .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a diencephalon .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into endoderm .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into mesoderm .
a rigid covering that envelops an object .
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular prominence .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
the splanchnic mesoderm in the cardiogenic region where the heart develops ;  it gives rise to endocardial heart tubes that fuse to form the primordial cardiac tube ,  the heart primordium [ web ]  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  keeps up the circulation of the blood or analogs [ go , modified ]  .
a dark greenish mass that accumulates in the bowel during fetal life and is discharged shortly after birth .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
gray matter of the central nervous system which is a collection of clustered nuclei .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a presomitic mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a neural plate .
the part of the blastula that has the potential to develop into a paraxial mesoderm .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer of an animal ,  it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material  ( e .g .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
an epithelial tube open at both ends that allows fluid flow .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
a bone that is part of a reproductive organ .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
any fluid produced by a serous gland .
anatomical system that consists of all blood and lymph vessels .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
an organism subdivision that encompasses the region containing the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
a bone that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a bone that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
a subdivision of a limb or fin skeleton consisting of bones which connects the upper limb or fin to the axial skeleton on each side .
a bone that is part of a craniocervical region .
a skeletal joint that is part of a appendage girdle region .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
a transient embryonic complex that comprises the pharyngeal arches ,  bulges of tissues of mesoderm and neural crest derivation through which pass nerves and pharyngeal arch arteries .
a head that is part of a embryo .
a brain that develops_from a neural tube .
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
the axilla is the area directly under the joint where the forelimb connects to the shoulder .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
an endoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
a portion of mesenchymal tissue associated with an individual pharyngeal arch .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindgut .
an endoderm that is part of a anal region .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch mandibular component .
a neural plate that develops_from a future forebrain .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a telencephalon .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing cardiac structures
an epithelium that is part of a embryonic cloaca .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing face .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
the sum total of mesenchymal tissue in the pharyngeal arch region .
an anatomical space with at least one opening to another space or the exterior .
an epithelium consisting of cuboidal epithelial cells .
mesenchyme that has the potential to develop into a dermis .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
a nuclear complex which in mammals consists of four parts ,  the hypothalamus ,  epithalamus ,  ventral thalamus ,  and dorsal thalamus [ wp , modified ]  .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a rhombencephalon neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
developing anatomical structure that develops into the eyeball and associated structures .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that is part of a orbital region .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
the ciliary processes are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid ,  i .e .
an organism subdivision that includes both an appendage and its associated girdle region .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pectoral appendicular skeleton and the pectoral girdle .
the subdivision of the skeleton of either the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
a bone that is part of an appendage girdle complex  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a pectoral complex .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements  ( i .e .
a synovial joint that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the postcranial axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of skull that consists of the facial bones .
the skull can be divided into two: the neurocranium and the facial skeleton
a multi cell part structure that is part of a central nervous system .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the appendicular skeleton plus associated joints .
a portion of gray matter that is part of a telencephalon .
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
a lymph vasculature that is part of a head .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
a subdivision of the head that corresponds to the jaw skeleton ,  containing both soft tissue ,  skeleton and teeth  ( when present )  .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
a nerve that is part of a head .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense connective tissue is mainly composed of collagen type i .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of bone tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
front  ( ventral )  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
a substance that is consumed by the organism for food .
a zone of skin that is part of a craniocervical region .
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
one of five swellings formed during the development of the face
a bone element that is part of a jaw region .
the opening of the cloacal chamber to the outside of the organism .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pectoral complex  -  i .e .
a mucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a cloaca .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone of the skull .
an anatomical space which is the lumen of some anatomical conduit and connects two or more spaces together [ fma , modified ]  .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the primary axis ,  typically the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
anatomical projection that is part of the integumentl system .
a organ component layer that is part of a integumental system .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the telencephalon .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all skeletal elements in the thoracic region of the trunk .
a unilaminar epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a anal region .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive forebrain
any muscle organ that is part of a cloaca .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral complex .
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  contributes to the circulation of lymph ,  blood or analogs .
a basement membrane of epithelium that is part of a respiratory system .
a zone of skin that is part of a axilla .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a epithelium that is part of a foregut .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
the part of the eye that consists of both the retina and the optic choroid
a part of an organism or organ that is continuous with its surroundings and distinguished from its surroundings based on morphology .
the area of axial mesoderm that develops into the prechordal plate
an multicellular anatomical structure that has subparts of multiple organs as a part .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
a region or zone on the surface of an organism that encompasses skin and any adnexa ,  down through muscles and bounded by underlying skeletal support structures .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the primordial mouth region of the developing head .
a sweet viscid material elaborated out of the nectar of flowers in the honey sac of various bees .
a bodily fluid consisting of the contents of the digestive tract expulsed through the anterior portion of the digestive tract .
an region of the mesoderm that includes anterior lateral mesoderm of the first heart field plus contiguous pharyngeal mesoderm that gives rise to second - heart - field - derived regions of the heart and branchiomeric muscles .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
a transudate found in the serous sac .
a zone of skin that is part of the face .
structures of the dermis ,  epidermis ,  glands and pigment cells recognizable on the external surfaces of the integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the external head integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the body integument .
blood vessels in respiratory skin .
p results in the developmental progression of s iff p is a developmental process and s is an anatomical structure and p causes s to undergo a change in state at some point along its natural developmental cycle  ( this cycle starts with its formation ,  through the mature structure ,  and ends with its loss )  .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone or cartilage tissue .
