used to describe the possession ,  relationships ,  or the state of something or someone .
a setting outside the clinic or a comparable health care facility ,  e .g .
helpful for doing or achieving something .
having no doubts ;  definitely true .
the precise location of something ;  a spatially limited location .
of great significance ,  value ,  or consequence .
having no significant health - related issues .
the power to have an effect on people ,  things ,  or events .
a human biological structure ,  fluid or other substance ;  excludes single molecular entities .
the effect or consequence of an event or condition .
for oncology ,  an area of the body generally construed to comprise the base of skull and facial bones ,  sinuses ,  orbits ,  salivary glands ,  oral cavity ,  oropharynx ,  larynx ,  thyroid ,  facial and neck musculature and lymph nodes draining these areas .
the anterior and superior part of a human bearing the mouth ,  the brain and sensory organs .
a liquid tissue ;  its major function is to transport oxygen throughout the body .
the part of the nervous system that consists of the brain ,  spinal cord ,  and meninges .
an organ composed of grey and white matter containing billions of neurons that is the center for intelligence and reasoning .
having a width ,  or side to side dimension ,  that is greater than is normally expected .
one of a pair of viscera occupying the pulmonary cavities of the thorax ,  the organs of respiration in which aeration of the blood takes place .
any small compartment .
a measure of the time until death from any cause .
a subjective response indicating that something improved .
a subjective response indicating that something is or was a large amount .
named areas of the body .
the system of muscles ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  bones ,  joints and associated tissues that move the body and maintain its form .
the entire nerve apparatus ,  composed of a central part ,  the brain and spinal cord ,  and a peripheral part ,  the cranial and spinal nerves ,  autonomic ganglia ,  and plexuses .
the organs involved in the exchange of carbon dioxide and oxygen including the trachea ,  bronchi ,  and lung parenchyma .
the collection of bones and tissues ,  including ligaments and cartilage ,  that compose the rigid internal framework of the human body ,  and which serves a multitude of functions ,  including structural support ,  movement ,  protection ,  production of blood cells ,  storage of ions ,  and endocrine regulation .
the division of the body lying between the neck and the abdomen .
an anatomical structure consisting of similarly specialized cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships ,  performing a specific function .
the bodily system of organs and tissues ,  primarily the bone marrow ,  spleen ,  tonsils ,  and lymph nodes ,  involved in the production of blood .
an anatomical structure that consists of organs and organ subclasses responsible for certain body functions .
a response indicating that something is or was very difficult .
a response indicating that something is or was difficult .
one of two hemispheric projections of variable size situated in the subcutaneous layer over the pectoralis major muscle on either side of the chest .
a unique macroscopic  ( gross )  anatomic structure that performs specific functions .
any component of the entire nerve apparatus ,  including the brain ,  spinal cord ,  spinal nerves ,  autonomic ganglia ,  and plexuses .
the entire physical structure of an organism .
material produced by living organisms ;  it can be a necessary constituent of ,  or product of an organismal process .
the amino acids and their 3 - d arrangement in constituting a protein .
relating to the colon and rectum ,  or to the entire large bowel .
a structurally or functionally defined protein region .
an adjectival term used to specify a region of the body or other concepts associated with the body .
a binding site domain is a region of protein that physically interacts stereospecifically ,  and usually at high affinity ,  with a specific ligand ,  substrate ,  or a specific domain of some complex target biomolecule ,  such as a protein ,  lipid ,  carbohydrate ,  or nucleic acid .
the establishment of a state or result .
someone or something considered as suitable or likely for something .
a substrate domain is a protein region that physically interacts stereospecifically ,  and usually at high affinity ,  with a specific target substrate .
any very large complex molecule including ,  proteins ,  nucleic acids and carbohydrates ,  especially refering to the particular arrangement of its component atoms and groups .
usually used to describe a condition that is persistent and long standing .
refers to abnormal cell activity manifested by decreased control over growth and function ,  causing tumor growth or spread into surrounding tissue and adverse effects to the host .
being approximately average or within certain limits ;  conforming with or constituting a norm or standard or level or type or social norm .
a term referring to the clinical or pathologic observation of a tumor extension from its original site of growth to another anatomic site .
a living organism that has membranous cell walls ,  requires oxygen and organic foods ,  and is capable of voluntary movement ,  as distinguished from a plant or mineral .
the organic phenomenon that distinguishes living organisms from nonliving ones ;  showing characteristics of life .
the bipedal primate mammal ,  homo sapiens ;  belonging to man or mankind ;  pertaining to man or to the race of man ;  use of man as experimental subject or unit of analysis in research .
a class of warm - blooded vertebrate animals having the skin more or less covered with hair ;  young are born alive except for the small subclass of monotremes and nourished with milk .
a living entity .
the extent to which a diagnostic or therapeutic product achieves its intended effect in the typical clinical setting .
the taxonomic order of mammals that includes man ,  monkeys ,  and lemurs .
a subphylum of animals consisting of those having a bony or cartilaginous vertebral column .
restricted or in amount ,  size ,  or extent .
a non - taxonomic grouping of organisms based on a shared characteristic .
a plan of action intended to accomplish a specific goal .
research conducted with human subjects or on material of human origin in which an investigator directly interacts with human subjects ;  includes development of new technologies ,  study of mechanisms of human diseases ,  therapy ,  clinical trials ,  epidemiologic ,  behavior ,  and health services research .
the investigation ,  analysis and recognition of the presence and nature of disease ,  condition ,  or injury from expressed signs and symptoms ;  also ,  the scientific determination of any kind ;  the concise results of such an investigation .
any of the services rendered for the benefit of a patient .
a plan detailing how a study will be performed in order to represent the phenomenon under examination ,  to answer the research questions that have been asked ,  and defining the methods of data analysis .
a procedure for critical evaluation .
the use of any device ,  marker ,  or other means for the purpose of detecting the presence of disease ,  usually in asymptomatic individuals .
systematic investigation into a subject in order to discover facts ,  establish or revise a theory ,  or develop a plan of action based on the facts discovered .
the use of synthetic or naturally - occurring chemicals for the treatment of diseases .
the process of isolating and testing the dna of an embryo or a person to detect the presence of genetic alterations or defects that may predispose to the future development of a disease or disorder .
design ,  identification ,  synthesis ,  extraction ,  purification ,  modification ,  or characterization of potential anticancer agents ;  studies of their metabolism ,  distribution ,  excretion ,  physiological effects ,  molecular interactions ,  structural analysis ,  toxicity ,  mechanism of action ,  antitumor effects in vivo  ( nonhuman species )  or in vitro  ( human or nonhuman )  ,  and phase i and phase ii clinical trials .
data obtained through patient examination or treatment .
the detailed planning of studies of the safety ,  efficacy ,  or optimum dosage schedule  ( if appropriate )  of one or more diagnostic ,  therapeutic ,  or prophylactic drugs ,  devices ,  or techniques selected according to predetermined criteria of eligibility and observed for predefined evidence of favorable and unfavorable effects .
small - scale testing  ( usually on sbirs )  of new technology in a small group of patients or normal volunteers .
the process by which information about the health status of an individual is obtained after a study has officially closed ;  an activity that continues something that has already begun or that repeats something that has already been done .
the use of statistical analysis ,  computer analysis ,  or model organisms to predict outcomes of research .
any specific activity undertaken during the course of a clinical study or research protocol .
the actions of prevention ,  treatment ,  and management of illness and the preservation of mental and physical well - being through the services offered by the medical and allied health professions .
the activity of perceiving ,  discerning ,  discovering or identifying .
the act of validating ;  finding or testing the truth of something .
the actions or reactions of an object or organism ,  usually in relation to the environment or surrounding world of stimuli .
a characteristic that can be objectively measured and serves as an indicator for normal biologic processes ,  pathogenic processes ,  state of health or disease ,  the risk for disease development and / or prognosis ,  or responsiveness to a particular therapeutic intervention .
the division of the natural sciences that is concerned with the phenomenon of life and vital processes .
the scientific study of living organisms .
any process by which signals are passed from one cell to another through a direct multicellular interaction .
the exchange of information between objects ,  people ,  or groups .
a set of people with some shared element .
the statistical characterization of human populations or segments of human populations  ( e .g . ,  characterization by age ,  sex ,  race ,  or income )  .
the constitutional or inborn state disposing to a disease ,  group of diseases ,  or metabolic or structural anomaly .
the activities of educating or instructing or teaching ;  activities that impart knowledge or skill .
the totality of surrounding conditions .
the process by which organism populations change over successive generations that is influenced by gene mutation and natural selection .
typically involves transcription of genetically encoded information into an intermediary message  ( messenger rna )  and subsequent translation into a functional protein .
a functional unit of heredity which occupies a specific position on a particular chromosome and serves as the template for a product that contributes to a phenotype or a biological function .
chromosomal ,  biochemical ,  intracellular ,  and other methods used in the study of genetics ,  including rna and dna chemistry .
the branch of biology that deals with heredity ,  especially the mechanisms of hereditary transmission and the variation of inherited characteristics among similar or related organisms
the complete genomic content of an organism ,  and possibly the full dna sequence of that organism .
the genetic constitution of an organism or cell ,  as distinct from its expressed features or phenotype .
any demarcated area of the earth ;  may be determined by both natural and human boundaries .
an institution that provides medical ,  surgical ,  or psychiatric care and treatment for the sick or the injured .
the relative frequency of occurrence of something .
the sciences concerned with gathering and manipulating and storing and retrieving and classifying recorded information .
a medical specialty concerned with the diagnosis of diseases of the internal organs and non - surgical treatments .
a manner of living that reflects the person's values and attitudes .
the branches of medical science that deal with nonsurgical techniques .
a practiced and regimented skill or series of actions .
a style or design of an item .
morbidity ;  the relative incidence of a particular disease in a population .
the ratio of deaths in an area to the population of that area ,  expressed as deaths per 1000 per year .
a biologic function or a process having an abnormal or deleterious effect at the subcellular ,  cellular ,  multicellular ,  or organismal level .
a person who receives medical attention ,  care ,  or treatment ,  or who is registered with medical professional or institution with the purpose to receive medical care when necessary .
the investigation of the influence of variations in dna sequence on drug response .
the study of pharmacologic agents .
the assemblage of traits or outward appearance of an individual .
a group of individuals united by a common factor  ( e .g . ,  geographic location ,  ethnicity ,  disease ,  age ,  gender ) 
prediction of the probable course and outcome of a disease .
a group of complex organic macromolecules composed of one or more chains  ( linear polymers )  of alpha - l - amino acids linked by peptide bonds and ranging in size from a few thousand to over 1 million daltons .
the subjective measurement of an individual's sense of well - being and ability to enjoy life .
an active power or cause  ( as principle ,  substance ,  physical or biological factor ,  etc . ) 
the potential future harm that may arise from some present action .
the branches of medical science that deal with nonsurgical techniques .
the branch of medical science that treats disease or injury by operative procedures .
continuance of life or existence especially under adverse conditions ;  includes methods and philosophy of survival .
technology is the discipline dealing with the art or science of applying scientific knowledge to practical problems .
government records of live births ,  fetal deaths ,  marriages ,  divorces ,  and deaths that occur within that jurisdiction .
having ,  relating to ,  or consisting of more than one individual ,  element ,  part ,  or other component ;  manifold .
an intracellular or extracellular function ,  activity ,  or process principally involving intracellular or extracellular components .
general term for proteins that have binding as a major function .
an activity occurring within an organism ,  between organisms or among organisms and the mechanisms underlying such events .
the study of tumors encompassing the physical ,  chemical ,  and biologic properties .
having to do with information that is passed from parents to offspring through genes in sperm and egg cells .
bioinformatics derives knowledge from computer analysis of biological data .
protected against infectious disease by either specific or non - specific mechanisms .
any procedure or test to diagnose a disease or disorder .
to teach theory and hands on experience
a natural phenomenon involving the physics of matter and energy .
a protein located on the cell surface ,  or in the cytoplasm ,  that binds to a specific signaling factor ,  such as a hormone ,  antigen ,  or neurotransmitter ,  causing a conformational and functional change in the receptor molecule .
the study of the structure and dynamics of computational systems using mathematical ,  logical ,  and empirical tools .
an occupational discipline which unites information science with computer science .
return to a former state ;  a subsidence of the symptoms of a disease process ;  in cancer ,  a decrease in the size of a tumor or in the extent of cancer in the body .
the pathologic ,  physiologic ,  or biochemical mechanism resulting in the development of a disease or morbid process .
the act of improving by expanding or enlarging or refining .
factors ,  produced by the body ,  which regulate some aspect of physiology .
an intercellular process that involves a cellular receptor binding to a cognate ligand and results in a specific cellular response .
a method of analyzing or representing statistical data ;  a procedure for calculating a statistic .
an organic or inorganic substance ,  element ,  isotope ,  food or other materials derived from microorganism ,  plant ,  or animal sources .
substances that are grouped or classified by chemical composition .
any process by which signals are passed between two distinct cell types over a distance ,  typically through the circulatory system .
a grouping of occupations and fields of study .
the methods and tools used for dna analysis and manipulation .
molecules ,  of an unidentified chemical nature ,  that participate in signal transduction processes in the cell .
institutions with an organized medical staff for the medical care ,  treatment ,  and cure of the sick and wounded ,  for the study of disease ,  and for the training of physicians ,  nurses ,  and allied health personnel .
the distinguishing qualities or prominent aspects of an individual person .
hard ,  involved or complicated ,  elaborate ,  having many parts .
a printed or electronic document with spaces to be filled out .
a physical object ,  or electronic counterpart ,  that is characterized by containing writing which is meant to be human - readable .
any place at which medical services are rendered .
a laboratory procedure that involves the study of tissues ,  cells ,  and fluids using dna / rna analysis techniques for the identification of characteristics and abnormalities at the molecular level .
a biologic function ,  activity ,  or process involving either specialized organ functions ,  individual organs ,  organ systems ,  body parts ,  or whole organisms .
organizing term for the proteins tree
a characteristic of an organism that contributes to the diagnosis or treatment of a disease or to the prediction of clinical outcomes .
the investigation of variations of dna and rna characteristics as related to drug response .
the global analysis of cellular proteins .
receptor genes encode cell surface or cytoplasmic receptor proteins that each bind to specific signaling factors  ( such as a hormone ,  antigen ,  or neurotransmitter )  causing a conformational and functional change in the ligand - bound receptor ,  altering its interaction with target molecules and leading to changes in cellular physiology through modification of the activity of one or more signal transduction pathways .
collection of proteins that are evolutionarily related .
an organizational header for concepts representing mostly abstract entities .
a function or process affecting multiple organisms or organism groups .
a distinguishing quality or prominent aspect of a person ,  object ,  action ,  process ,  or substance .
the result of an action .
technique used in the laboratory for scientific research .
any subcellular or molecular event or process specifically ,  primarily ,  and directly designed for and involved in the production of mature functional biomolecular products encoded by a gene .
a biologic function or process involving coordinated groups or populations of single cell types ,  mixed cell types ,  or tissues .
enzyme genes encode enzymes ,  biological molecules  ( usually proteins )  that possess catalytic activity .
ligand binding protein genes encode ligand binding proteins ,  a large class of diverse proteins for which a major function appears to be  ( typically high affinity )  binding of some ligand for solubility ,  transport ,  bioactivity regulation ,  or other nonenzymatic process .
a person related by blood or marriage .
terms used to indicate units of time or other terms associated with time .
the buildings and organizations where healthcare services are provided .
those anatomic structures that are generally only visible through the use of microscopy .
how long something has existed ;  elapsed time since birth .
a method of generalization ,  the systematic arrangement of entities into classes or groups based on mutual similarity and certain differing characteristics .
the particular day ,  month and year an event has happened or will happen .
a taxonomic category between order and genus .
refers to a person's state of physical ,  mental and social well - being ;  usually it refers specifically to the state of being in good health ,  a state of complete physical ,  mental and social well - being ,  and does not consist only of the absence of disease or infirmity .
a human being .
anything  ( e .g . ,  a document )  providing permanent evidence of or information about past events .
the individual as the object of his own reflective consciousness .
a measure of the minimum change in an input signal that an instrument can detect .
the continuum of experience in which events pass from the future through the present to the past .
a starting point to which things may be compared .
systematic ,  objective appraisal of the significance ,  effectiveness ,  and impact of activities or condition according to specified objectives and criteria .
the final result of a determination of the value ,  significance ,  or extent of .
an activity that produces an effect ,  or that is intended to alter the course of a disease in a patient or population .
an elevated level or position or degree ;  greater than normal in degree or intensity or amount .
being or located on or directed toward the side of the body to the east when facing north .
the extent of a 2 - dimensional surface enclosed within a boundary .
involving advantage or good .
involving disadvantage or harm .
a variable that is stored as a signed 64 - bit  ( 8 - byte )  integer .
a variable that is stored as a signed 16 - bit  ( 2 - byte )  integer .
to possess every necessary or normal part or component or step ;  having come or been brought to a conclusion .
occurring first in time or sequence ;  original ;  of greatest rank or importance or value .
a distinguishable part ,  a stage in a series of events or in a process of development ,  e .g .
relating to the study or practice of medicine .
having value for making predictions .
relating to or involved in therapy .
near to or not long before the present .
an essential and distinguishing attribute of something or someone ;  a degree or grade of excellence or worth .
something distinguishable as an identifiable class based on common qualities .
pertaining to the heart or blood vessels .
any procedure that involves testing or manipulating a sample of blood ,  urine ,  or other body substance in a laboratory setting .
the time for earth to make a complete rotation on its axis ;  ordinarily divided into twenty - four hours ,  equal to 86 400 seconds .
pertaining to an entirety or whole ,  also constituting the full quantity or extent ;  complete ;  derived by addition .
to become lower ,  grow less ,  or diminish ,  as in amount ,  intensity ,  degree ,  or value .
of ,  or relating to ,  or affecting ,  or for use in the mouth .
involving or being in effect for a long time .
a numeral or string of numerals expressing value ,  quantity ,  or identification .
a number or range of numeric values measuring performance ,  function ,  quality ,  or ability .
to put into action or service .
a position ,  site ,  or point in space where something can be found .
an action that is carried out or accomplished .
an event that accomplishes its intended purpose .
alternative choices or actions .
a short textual account ;  having provided a short account .
limited in number ,  quantity ,  magnitude or extent .
passage through time ;  duration ;  a systematic or / and orderly succession ;  a sequence ,  e .g .
the positive effects of something .
the anterior side of the thorax from the neck to the abdomen .
examination and interpretation ;  the process of identifying an issue to be understood and addressed ,  modelling the issue ,  investigating the model results ,  interpreting the results ,  and possibly making a recommendation .
the right to obtain or make use of or take advantage of something  ( as services or membership )  ;  the right to enter .
relating to the examination and treatment of patients dependent on direct observation .
a thing done .
added ;  extra ;  further .
a formal speech or report .
far along in course .
available in place of something else .
a way of entering or leaving .
the quality of being obtainable or accessible and ready for use or service .
the fundamental assumptions underlying an explanation or a relation that provide the foundation for something .
having the most positive qualities .
the act of alteration or modification ;  changed or altered in form or character .
the distinguishing qualities or prominent aspect of a person ,  object ,  action ,  process ,  or substance .
made or joined or united into one or involving the joint activity of two or more .
a state of being ,  such as a state of health .
being in or verging on a state of crisis or emergency ;  urgently needed ;  absolutely necessary .
occurring in or belonging to the present time .
occurring or done each day .
a collection or single item of factual information ,  derived from measurement or research ,  from which conclusions may be drawn .
characteristic or indicative of a condition .
a quantity of an agent  ( such as substance or energy )  administered ,  taken ,  or absorbed at one time .
a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon .
the point or place at which something terminates in time ,  space ,  or extent .
something that happens at a given place and time .
considered likely or probable ;  anticipated .
anything that contributes causally to a result .
area of greatest concentration ,  attention ,  or activity ;  a central point or locus ,  especially of an infection .
the number of occurrences of something within a given time period .
the normal action performed by a structure or device .
a process of becoming larger ,  more numerous ,  more important ,  or more likely .
concerning or belonging to two or more nations .
be in charge of ;  a position of leadership .
a position on a scale measuring intensity ,  quality ,  or amount .
most important ;  principal .
relating to or produced by or consisting of molecules .
having no previous example or precedent or parallel ;  of a kind not seen before .
ascertained or determined through monitoring or observation .
including everything .
before the present time .
an interval of time .
being or existing in a specified place or at the specified time .
occurring prior to something else .
earlier in time or order .
the act of moving forward toward a goal .
what something is used for ;  reason or intention .
a measurement of degree ,  speed ,  or frequency relative to time .
made less in size or amount or degree .
a state of connectedness between people ,  objects ,  or events ;  to be associated or connected with something .
an ordered reference standard used to measure incremental changes .
a suffix denoting the second person having the same complete name  ( first ,  middle ,  and family names )  .
derived as a result of a primary condition ;  not direct or immediate ;  of second rank or importance or value .
the spatial arrangement of something as distinct from its substance .
the physical magnitude of something .
a constituent administrative district of a nation .
a condition or state at a particular time .
the process of classifying patients into a sequence of grades or ranks as part of the randomization process or for purposes of data analysis .
a group of independent but interrelated elements comprising a unified whole .
having been accepted for some purpose ;  ingested as a medication .
an object fixed as a goal or point of examination ;  something to point at ;  a destination .
a word or expression used for some particular thing .
providing treatment for .
a named quantity in terms of which other quantities are measured or specified ,  used as a standard measurement of like kinds .
a numerical quantity measured or assigned or computed .
an alteration or difference from a norm or standard .
the procedure of having an identity established .
a lack of occurrence or performance .
any act or phenomena ,  or behavior ,  constituting a reply or reaction of a living organism or its part to some foregoing stimulus or agent .
any component of the system of muscles ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  bones ,  joints and associated tissues that move the body and maintain its form .
organism or cells with a nucleus separated from the cytoplasm by a two membrance nuclear envelope and compartmentalization of function into distinct cytoplasmic organelles .
transferase genes encode enzymes  ( transferases )  that transfer a group ,  such as a methyl group or a glycosyl group ,  from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
a phosphotransferase gene encodes one of a large group of enzymes that transfer phosphate ,  diphosphate ,  nucleotidyl residues ,  and other groups .
kinase family genes encode kinase enzymes that covalently transfer the terminal ,  gamma phosphate group from atp to a variety of substrates and typically play key regulatory roles in diverse cellular functions .
a protein ,  rna or a complex that contains proteins and / or rna .
the finding of bodily harm due to the poisonous effects of something .
an adjectival term used to specify and describe a disease appearance or processes .
a term that helps define and render another concept unique .
the value which has an equal number of values greater and less than it .
a difficulty ,  disorder ,  or condition needing resolution .
pertaining to biology or to life and living things .
the quality or state of consisting of elements that are not of the same kind or nature .
a linked series of non - equivalent biochemical interactions and enzymatic reactions ,  and / or a linked series of biochemical processes .
encoded by kinase family genes ,  kinase enzymes covalently transfer the terminal ,  gamma phosphate group from atp to a variety of substrates and typically play key regulatory roles in diverse cellular functions .
a period of time that it takes for earth to make a complete revolution around the sun ,  approximately 365 days ;  a specific one year period .
a sequence of events which produces some outcome .
any part of an organism .
happening again  ( especially at regular intervals )  .
clinical ,  laboratory or molecular evidence ,  or absence of evidence of disease .
any component of the nervous system that consists of the brain ,  spinal cord ,  and meninges .
a term that refers to the nature and / or clinical outcome of a disease  ( e .g . ,  acute or chronic disease ,  aggressive or indolent disease ,  recurrent disease ,  etc .
damage inflicted on the body as the direct or indirect result of an external force ,  with or without disruption of structural continuity .
moral ,  psychological ,  physical ,  or financial aid or assistance ;  approval .
a statistical calculation describing the central tendency of a set of numbers ;  used to interpret quantitative data .
a facility equipped and competent to conduct scientific experiments ,  observations ,  tests ,  investigations ,  and / or to manufacture chemicals or medical products .
executed and carried through to completion .
happening at a time subsequent to a reference time ;  later in time or order .
the difference between the lowest and highest numerical values ;  the limits or scale of variation .
ranked categories for the classification of organisms according to their suspected evolutionary relationships .
a term that helps define and render a concept unique .
a term applied to differences ,  correlations ,  cause - and - effect relationships ,  etc . ,  to indicate that they are noticeable ,  probably too closely correlated to be attributed to chance and therefore indicating a systematic relation: substantial ,  fairly large ;  also having consequence or import ,  important in effect or meaning .
the bodily system of organs and tissues ,  primarily the bone marrow ,  spleen ,  tonsils ,  and lymph nodes ,  involved in the production of blood considered together with the interconnected system of spaces and vessels between body tissues and organs by which lymph circulates throughout the body .
any component of the system of organs and tissues ,  including the bone marrow ,  spleen ,  tonsils ,  and lymph nodes ,  involved in the production of blood considered together with the interconnected system of spaces and vessels between body tissues and organs by which lymph circulates throughout the body .
anything that is necessary but lacking ;  the psychological feature that arouses an organism to action toward a desired goal ;  the reason for the action ;  that which gives purpose and direction to behavior .
any of the individuals who are descended from a common progenitor ,  related by marriage or other legal tie ,  or by a feeling of closeness .
a base or derived unit of weight or measure that belongs to the decimal international system of units  ( systeme international d'unites ,  si )  derived from and extending the metric system .
the base units are a choice of seven well - defined units within the international system of units  ( systeme international d'unites ,  si )  ,  which by convention are regarded as dimensionally independent and therefore defined in an absolute way without referring to any other units: the meter ,  the kilogram ,  the second ,  the ampere ,  the kelvin ,  the mole ,  and the candela .
an indication of the type of unit of measure being used to express a time .
an indication of the form that a value will have .
a commercial document used to request someone to supply something in return for payment and providing specifications and quantities .
terminology entities represent the elements that form and define an ontology .
the act of appraisal ,  evaluation ,  or analysis .
the act of working out the form of something  ( as by making a sketch or outline or plan )  or the result of this activity .
any number of entities  ( members )  considered as a unit .
one of a series of documents that are published periodically .
an active process ;  excludes processes and mechanisms which fulfill biological functions .
widely known or encountered ;  standard ;  of no special distinction or quality .
knowledge on which to base belief .
a document ,  established by consensus and approved by a recognized body ,  that provides ,  for common and repeated use ,  rules ,  guidelines or characteristics for activities or their results .
having been determined by measurement .
a long linear double - stranded polymer formed from nucleotides attached to a deoxyribose backbone and found in the nucleus of a cell ;  associated with the transmission of genetic information .
a group of items of the same type ,  gathered for display or study .
the single one of its kind .
the state in which a substance has no tendency to flow under moderate stress ;  resists forces  ( such as compression )  that tend to deform it ;  and retains a definite size and shape .
any matter of defined composition that has discrete existence ,  whose origin may be biological ,  mineral or chemical .
having been appraised ,  evaluated ,  or analyzed .
exerting influence or producing an effect ;  taking part in an activity .
greater or bigger in amount ,  extent ,  or size .
the science of dealing with the maintenance of health and the prevention and treatment of disease .
the determination of the dna sequence of an individual .
a unit of knowledge created by a unique combination of characteristics .
a drug product that contains one or more active and / or inactive ingredients ;  it is intended to treat ,  prevent or alleviate the symptoms of disease .
a value used to identify a record in a database .
the quality of being unlike or dissimilar .
a number designating a place in an ordered sequence .
large in quantity ,  range ,  or spatial extent .
any specifically defined piece of work that is undertaken or attempted to meet a single requirement .
a procedure for critical evaluation ;  a means of determining the presence ,  quality ,  or truth of something .
an unvarying or habitual method or procedure .
a group of things of the same kind that belong together and are so used .
the act of carrying into effect .
nonfictional prose forming an independent part of a publication .
a series of operations on data by a computer in order to retrieve or transform or classify information .
a way of doing something ;  how a result is obtained or an end is achieved .
an operation used in calculus whereby the integral of a function is determined .
a quantitative representation of the degree of accuracy necessary for or associated with a particular action .
a single step in the line of descent from a common ancestor .
a representative form or pattern ;  an item of information that is representative of a type .
a specific stage of progression through a sequential process .
the tangible substance that goes into the makeup of a physical object .
knowledge derived from study ,  experience ,  or instruction that has been gathered or received by communication .
made for or directed or adjusted to a particular individual .
a systematic examination or assessment .
any distinct time period in a sequence of events .
not accompanied by another or others ;  exclusive of anyone or anything else .
refers to in vitro testing or in vivo animal testing before clinical trials in humans are to be carried out .
the usual or expected function of something ;  the part something plays in an action or event .
not far distant in time or space or degree or circumstances .
used to indicate that either or both of two items or options may be valid .
not private ;  open to or concerning the people as a whole .
the information contained in a data field .
an affix occurring at the end of a word ,  word base ,  phrase ,  or name .
the quality of nearness to the truth or the true value .
a problem requiring investigation .
based on fact or observable phenomena and not on personal feeling or bias .
an action or administration of therapeutic agents to produce an effect that is intended to alter or stop a pathologic process .
existing in fact and ready for service .
of considerable or relatively great size ,  extent ,  or capacity .
those units of time that are routinely used to express the age of a person or thing .
a health care facility where patients are admitted to get treatment provided by a group of physicians practicing medicine together .
the activities of educating or instructing or teaching ;  activities that impart knowledge or skill .
a broad framework of goals to be achieved .
a position ,  opinion ,  or judgment reached on an issue under consideration .
the sum of a set of values divided by the number of values in the set .
the activity of looking thoroughly in order to find something or someone ;  an operation that determines whether one or more of a set of items has a specified property .
an extrapolation of given data into the future .
marked by diversity or difference ;  liable to or capable of change .
a set or series of interactions ,  often forming a network ,  which biologists have found useful to group together for organizational ,  historic ,  biophysical ,  or other reasons .
the quality ,  state ,  or process of  ( two or more things )  acting on each other .
the aggregate of past events ;  the continuum of events occurring in succession leading from the past to the present ;  a record or narrative description of past events .
the accumulation of knowledge or skill that results from direct participation in events or activities .
a minimum level or position or degree ;  less than normal in degree ,  intensity or amount .
made for or directed or adjusted to a particular individual .
a written request for something ,  such as assistance ,  employment ,  or admission to a school .
the goal intended to be attained  ( and which is believed to be attainable )  .
the state of being certain that adverse effects will not be caused by some agent under defined conditions .
the act of observing something  ( and sometimes keeping a record of it )  .
the act of directing or determining ;  regulation or maintenance of a function or action ;  a relation of constraint of one entity  ( thing or person or group )  by another .
the act of conducting ,  controlling or supervising something .
an interconnected system of things or people .
the intellectual and practical activity encompassing the systematic study of the structure and behaviour of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment .
notable in size ,  number ,  measure ,  magnitude ,  degree ,  or effectiveness .
relating to ,  concerned with ,  limited to ,  owned by ,  or in the interests of a particular nation .
very large in expanse or scope ;  having great extent from one side to the other .
the work of attending to someone or something .
a group of individuals ,  identified by a common characteristic .
a collection of things that have been assembled together to form a new whole .
broad in scope ;  including all or everything .
at or near the beginning of a period of time or course of events .
having strength ,  power ,  or intensity greater than average or expected .
the likelihood or possibility that a specific state or condition will exist or that an action will occur .
as an immediate result ;  having nothing intervening ;  without deviation or interruption .
categories into which numbers are apportioned by the conventions of algebraic number theory .
services and space and equipment provided for a particular purpose ;  a building or place that provides a particular service or is used for a particular industry .
the act of describing distinctive characteristics or essential features .
relating to human society and its members .
in botanical nomenclature ,  a rank below subspecies but above forma .
the universe of discourse that surrounds a language unit and helps to determine its interpretation .
a detailed examination ,  analysis ,  or critical inspection of a subject designed to discover facts about it .
a process of becoming larger or longer or more numerous .
a regimen for an intervention which consists of a specified number of instances within a specific time period .
the process of directing an agent to a specific anatomic location .
coming at short intervals or in great quantities .
form from constituents .
valuable or useful or agreeable or pleasing .
acting or occurring in a brief period of time .
an organism that nourishes and supports another but does not benefit by the association ;  recipient of transplanted tissue or organ from a donor .
a time that is yet to come .
covering or affecting the whole of a system .
the amount paid ,  charged ,  or engaged to be paid ,  for purchasing goods ,  services and financial instruments .
a condition that is relevant to human neoplasms and non - neoplastic disorders .
type of substance that may be described as a linear sequence of nucleosides typically linked through phosphate esters .
the relation of something to the matter at hand .
intensely bad or unpleasant in degree ,  quality or extent .
subject to a process with the aim of readying for some purpose ,  improving ,  or remedying a condition .
capable of being estimated or expressed with numeric values .
the region in which a particular type of force can be observed ,  often viewed as a space which was modified by the sources of the force which the field represents .
a header concept for chemicals that are the building blocks of inherited genetic information .
a research study that prospectively assigns human participants or groups of humans to one or more health - related interventions to evaluate the effects on health outcomes .
shown to be valid beyond a reasonable doubt .
an extended communication  ( often interactive )  dealing with some particular topic .
a means ,  manner of procedure ,  or systematic course of actions that have to be performed in order to accomplish a particular goal .
absolutely or vitally necessary ;  indispensable .
a mark that is long relative to its width ;  a length  ( straight or curved )  without breadth or thickness ;  the trace of a moving point .
to improve the quality of something ;  make better or more attractive .
in an improved condition .
molecule that contains atoms of the element carbon ,  usually combined with itself and with atoms of one or more other element such as hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  sulfur ,  phosphorus ,  chlorine ,  or fluorine .
a term used to indicate an object's position in space or it's relationship in space to another object .
exertion or effort directed to produce or accomplish something .
add as part of something else ;  put in as part of a set ,  group ,  or category .
physical or mental energy ;  hard work .
a small amount or duration .
of low value or worth .
people in general considered as a whole .
the administration of a substance in order to assess for a response .
the quality of being able to perform ;  a quality that permits or facilitates achievement or accomplishment .
a taxonomic family that was originally restricted to humans and their extinct relatives ,  but now also includes the gorilla ,  orangutan ,  chimpanzee and bonobo .
recognized ,  familiar ,  or within the scope of knowledge .
a specific representation of data ,  situations ,  topics ,  etc .
the act or process of rendering from one language into another .
a combination of symbols that represents a value .
supply what is desired or needed .
capable of happening or occurring .
a datum that can be represented numerically .
a unit of speech such as ,  a word ,  suffix ,  phrase ,  or sentence .
the application of genomic and molecular data to tailor medical care to individuals .
an array of entities ,  such as light waves or particles ,  ordered in accordance with the magnitudes of a common physical property ,  such as wavelength or mass .
an analysis  ( often in graphical form )  representing the extent to which something exhibits various characteristics .
having a good chance of being the case or of coming about .
the quantity of something that is borne or carried by an individual or population .
a period of 10 years .
the capacity to bring about a desired effect .
caused by or resulting from .
a designation assigned to a particular period during a life cycle ,  generally defined by chronological parameters .
deal with successfully .
a statement  ( either spoken or written )  that is made in reply to a clinical research assessment question .
a measurement expressed in words rather than numbers .
a condition superior to an earlier condition .
bringing together multiple scientific disciplines to address specific issues .
a desirable characteristic of a method in which its results would be rather unaffected by certain conditions under which these were obtained .
human beings in general .
creations of the mind ,  such as those created by musicians ,  authors ,  artists ,  and inventors .
