一个在任何时候都存在的实体，它持续存在，在维持其特性的同时且没有暂时的部分。
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
一个特定依赖性常体，在常体实体中存在，并且在每个实体或一组实体中都不会全部展现出来。可实现实体的展示或实现是在特定情况下发生的特定表现、功能或过程。
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
p is a process boundary =def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
b is a continuant fiat boundary = def .
b is a process_profile =def .
b is a relational quality = def .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
维持细胞株存活和活跃培养的细胞培养过程。
一个培养细胞，它是一个细胞株（一个稳定的，同质的细胞群，具有共同的生物学起源和增殖史）的一部分
悬浮细胞系培养是其中细胞不需要生长和分化表面的细胞系培养方法。 该方法适用于适合悬浮培养的细胞或非贴壁细胞（如造血细胞）
贴壁细胞系培养是一种细胞系培养方法，其中细胞需要一个表面进行生长和分化。
一个细胞系资源组织中所起的作用
一个作为细胞系存储库的组织。
预期能够进行无限次分裂的细胞系细胞，作为永生细胞系一部分，能够支持体外无限增殖。
a cultured cell population that represents a genetically stable and homogenous population of cultured cells that shares a common propagation history  ( i .e .
从老鼠组织中得到的一种永生细胞系。
源自运动细胞的细胞系
源自白细胞的永生游动细胞系
源自髓系白细胞的永生白细胞系
源自单核细胞的永生髓系白细胞系
源自无粒白细胞的永生白细胞细胞系
源自真核细胞的永生细胞系细胞
源自动物细胞的永生真核细胞系
源自上皮细胞的永生动物细胞系
源自造血细胞的永生动物细胞系
源自骨髓细胞的永生造血细胞系
源自体细胞的细胞系
源自一对肺的永生细胞系细胞。
源自肾的永生细胞系细胞。
源自结肠的永生细胞系细胞。
源自雌性性腺的永生细胞系细胞。
源自胃的永生细胞系细胞。
源自子宫颈的永生上皮细胞系细胞。
源自人的永生肺衍生细胞系细胞。
源自人的永生细胞系细胞。
源自人的永生结肠衍生细胞系细胞。
源自黑长尾猴的永生肾衍生细胞系细胞。
源自人的永生胃衍生细胞系细胞。
源自人的永生上皮细胞系细胞。
源自人的永生子宫颈衍生上皮细胞系细胞。
源自人的永生单核细胞系细胞。
a immortal human cell line cell that has the characteristics: lung carcinoma ,  refer to atcc ccl185
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cultured cell that is freshly isolated from a organismal source ,  or derives in culture from such a cell prior to the culture being passaged .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
a cell in vitro that is or has been maintained or propagated as part of a cell culture .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a cell found predominately in the blood .
an endothelial cell comprises the outermost layer or lining of anatomical structures and can be squamous or cuboidal .
a cell that moves by its own activities .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a lymphocyte of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive ,  cd20 - positive ,  and capable of b cell mediated immunity .
a lymphocyte is a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus ,  a neutral staining cytoplasm ,  and prominent heterochromatin .
myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages ,  osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells .
a cell in vitro that has undergone physical changes as a consequence of a deliberate and specific experimental procedure .
an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement ,  found in blood or other tissue .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  mast cell ,  megakaryocyte ,  or erythroid lineage .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  or mast cell lineage .
a leukocyte with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form .
a cell of a hematopoietic lineage .
a leukocyte that lacks granules .
an epithelial cell of the bronchus .
a large nucleated basophilic erythrocyte found in mammalian embryos .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
an epithelial cell of the intestine .
cell of the nasopharyngeal epithelium .
any blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of a microvascular endothelium .
a nervous system disease which is located in a part of the nervous system responsible for processing sensory information that consists of sensory receptors ,  neural pathways ,  and parts of the brain involved in sensory perception .
a respiratory system disease which involves the lower respiratory tract .
an organ system cancer located_in the respiratory system that is characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation in the respiratory tract .
a cancer that is classified based on the organ it starts in .
a cancer that is classified by the type of cell from which it is derived .
a large intestine cancer that is located_in the terminal part of the large intestine .
an eye and adnexa disease that is located_in the adnexa of the eye .
a heart disease that is located_in the innermost layer of tissue that lines the chambers of the heart .
a vascular disease that is located_in an artery .
an organ system cancer located_in the muscular and skeletal organs and characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation of the musculoskeletal organs .
a connective tissue tumor that can be a benign chondroma or a maligannt chondrosarcoma .
a nervous system cancer that is located in the sensory system .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in the thoracic cavity .
a gastrointestinal system cancer that is located_in the pharynx .
an organ system cancer that is located_in the skin ,  hair and nails .
a musculoskeletal system disease that affects the muscles .
a connective tissue disease that affects the structure or development of bone or causes an impairment of normal bone function .
an eye disease that affects the cornea ,  which is the transparent surface of the eye that assists in light refraction .
a gastrointestinal system cancer that is located_in the intestine .
a gastrointestinal system cancer that is located_in the stomach .
an eye disease that affects the lens of the eye ,  which is the transparent disc that focuses light to the photosensors in the back of the eye .
a female reproductive system disease that is located_in the ovary .
an urinary system cancer that results_in malignant growth located_in the urinary bladder .
a cardiovascular system disease that involves the heart .
a female reproductive system disease characterized by the growth of endometrial tissue that is located_in the fallopian tube .
a female reproductive system disease characterized by the growth of endometrial tissue that is located_in the intestine .
a female reproductive system disease characterized by the growth of endometrial tissue that is located_in the ovary .
a cardiovascular cancer located_in the heart .
a urinary system cancer that is located_in the ureter .
a female reproductive system cancer that is located_in the vagina .
a respiratory system cancer that is located_in the trachea .
an organ system cancer that arises in the head or neck region .
a reproductive organ cancer that is manifested in the female genitals .
a female reproductive system disease that is located_in the vagina .
a cancer that affects the blood or bone marrow characterized by an abnormal proliferation of blood cells .
an eye disease that involves the globe of the eye .
a vascular disease that is located_in the capillaries .
a disease of anatomical entity which occurs in the blood ,  heart ,  blood vessels or the lymphatic system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells or lymph to and from cells in the body to help fight diseases and help stabilize body temperature and ph to maintain homeostasis .
a hematologic cancer located_in the central nervous system .
a central nervous system cancer that is characterized by the growth of abnormal cells in the tissues of the brain .
a respiratory system cancer that is located_in the lung .
a uterine cancer that is located_in tissues lining the uterus .
a large intestine cancer that is located_in the anus .
a urinary system disease that is located_in the ureter .
a disease that is characterized by abnormally rapid cell division .
a sensory system disease that is located_in the eye or the adnexa of the eye .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in reproductive system organs .
a colon cancer that has_material_basis_in abnormally proliferating cells derives_from epithelial cells .
a disease of anatomical entity that located_in the respiratory system which extends from the nasal sinuses to the diaphragm .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in the integumentary system comprising the skin and its appendages .
a disease of cellular proliferation that is malignant and primary ,  characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation ,  local cell invasion and metastasis .
a disease of anatomical entity that occurs in the muscular and / or skeletal system .
an organ system cancer located_in endocrine system that is characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation of the hormone producing glands of the endocrine system .
a cardiovascular cancer that is located_in blood vessels .
an organ system cancer that located_in the heart and blood vessels .
a cardiovascular system disease that primarily affects the blood vessels which includes the arteries ,  veins and capillaries that carry blood to and from the heart .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in kidney ,  ureter ,  bladder and urethra .
a connective tissue cancer that is located_in bone and is characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation that destroys normal bone tissue .
a bone cancer and jaw disease that is located in the jaw and results in a swollen jaw ,  results in numbness or a tingling sensation in jaw ,  and results in an abnormal growth of the jaw bone .
an organ system cancer that is manifested in the reproductive organs .
a female reproductive system disease that is located_in the fallopian tube .
a female reproductive organ cancer that is located_in fallopian tube .
a colorectal cancer that is located_in the rectum .
a musculoskeletal system cancer that is located_in connective tissue .
a sensory system cancer located_in the eye that is characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation in the eye .
a colorectal cancer that is located_in the colon .
a uterine disease that is located_in the cervix .
an endocrine system disease that is located_in the gonads .
a reproductive system disease that impairs the ability to reproduce and is located in the uterus ,  vagina ,  cervix ,  ovaries or fallopian tubes .
a colon carcinoma that derives_from epithelial cells of glandular origin .
a female reproductive organ cancer that is located_in the ovary .
an organ system cancer located in the hematological system that is characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation in blood ,  bone marrow and lymph nodes .
a urinary system cancer that is located_in the kidney .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in endocrine glands which secretes a type of hormone directly into the bloodstream to regulate the body .
a female reproductive system disease characterized by the growth of endometrial tissue outside the uterine body .
a cervical cancer that is located_in the cervix uteri or located_in the cervical area and that has_material_basis_in abnormally proliferating cells derives_from epithelial cells .
a carcinoma that has_material_basis_in abnormally proliferating cells ,  derives_from epithelial cells ,  which originate in glandular tissue .
an adenocarcinoma that derives_from epithelial cells originating in glandular tissue ,  which produce mucin .
a cell type cancer that has_material_basis_in abnormally proliferating cells derives_from epithelial cells .
an organ system cancer located_in the nervous system that affects the central or peripheral nervous system .
an organ system cancer located_in gastrointestinal tract that is manifested in organs of the gastrointestinal system .
a nervous system disease that affects either the spinal cord  ( myelopathy )  or brain  ( encephalopathy )  of the central nervous system .
a female reproductive system disease that is located_in the uterus .
an eye disease affecting the uvea ,  which are the pigmented layers of the eye consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body ,  and choroid .
a skin disease where there is a diffuse infection of connective tissue with severe inflammation of dermal and subcutaneous layers of the skin .
a nervous system cancer that is located_in the central nervous system .
a female reproductive organ cancer that is located_in the uterus .
a urinary system disease that is located_in the bladder .
an integumentary system disease that is located_in skin .
a cervix carcinoma that derives_from epithelial cells of glandular origin .
a stomach carcinoma that derives_from epithelial cells of glandular origin .
a lung cancer that has_material_basis_in abnormally proliferating cells derives_from epithelial cells and is located_in the lungs and has_symptom cough and has_symptom chest discomfort or pain and has_symptom weight loss and has_symptom hemoptysis .
a lung carcinoma that is characterized as any type of epithelial lung cancer other than small cell lung carcinoma .
an organ system cancer that is located_in the kidneys ,  ureteres ,  bladder or urethra .
a disposition  ( i )  to undergo pathological processes that  ( ii )  exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
a gastrointestinal system disease that is located_in the mouth .
a musculoskeletal system cancer that is located_in muscle .
an integumentary system cancer located_in the skin that is the uncontrolled growth of abnormal skin cells .
a female reproductive organ cancer that is located_in the cervix .
a brain cancer that is located_in the infratentorial region .
an organ system cancer located_in the thoracic cavity that develops in the different types of cells within the lungs ,  as well as less common cancers of the esophagus ,  the trachea ,  or the chest wall .
an artery disease that is characterized by degeneration of the cells composing the aortic wall .
a gastrointestinal system disease that is located_in the intestine .
a stomach cancer that is located_in the stomach .
a urinary system disease that is located_in the kidney .
a central nervous system cancer that is located_in the spinal cord .
an eye and adnexa disease that is located_in the eye .
an intestinal cancer that effects the long ,  tube - like organ that is connected to the small intestine at one end and the anus at the other .
an eye disease that is located_in the retina .
a nervous system disease that affects the peripheral nervous system .
a hematologic cancer and central nervous system neoplasm that is located_in the central nervous system .
an artery disease that is located in the lungs .
a musculoskeletal system disease that affects tissues such as skin ,  tendons ,  and cartilage .
an vascular disease that is characterized by dysfunction of the blood vessels supplying the brain .
a disease that manifests in a defined anatomical structure .
a urinary system disease that is located_in the urethra .
an urinary tract cancer that derives_from the tissues of the urethra .
a disease of anatomical entity that has_material_basis_in hematopoietic cells .
a gastrointestinal system disease that is located_in the stomach .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in the gastrointestinal tract .
a lower respiratory tract disease in which the function of the lungs is adversely affected by narrowing or blockage of the airways resulting in poor air flow ,  a loss of elasticity in the lungs that produces a decrease in the total volume of air that the lungs are able to hold ,  and clotting ,  scarring ,  or inflammation of the blood vessels that affect the ability of the lungs to take up oxygen and to release carbon dioxide .
a myeloid leukemia that is characterized by a dominance of monocytes in the marrow .
a gastrointestinal system cancer that is located_in the oral cavity .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in the central nervous system or located_in the peripheral nervous system .
a vascular disease that is located_in a vein .
a leukemia that is located_in myeloid tissue .
a monocytic leukemia where the majority of monocytic cells are promonocytes .
a large intestine cancer that is located_in the colon and / or located_in the rectum .
an adnexa disease that is located_in the eye socket .
a central nervous system disease that is located_in the brain .
a hematopoietic system disease that is located_in white blood cells .
a respiratory system disease which involves the upper respiratory tract .
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the attachment of a cell or organism to a substrate ,  another cell ,  or other organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
receiving a signal and transmitting it in the cell to initiate a change in cell activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of symbiosis ,  an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
a process carried out by symbiont gene products that enables the interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
the attachment of a symbiont to its host via adhesion molecules ,  general stickiness etc . ,  either directly or indirectly .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
the activity of a gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a compound molecular function in which an effector function is controlled by one or more regulatory components .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
a molecular function that modulates the activity of a gene product or complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling receptor activity .
a measurement unit label is as a label that is part of a scalar measurement datum and denotes a unit of measure .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take
a label is a symbol that is part of some other datum and is used to either partially define  the denotation of that datum or to provide a means for identifying the datum as a member of the set of data with the same label
software is a plan specification composed of a series of instructions that can be  interpreted by or directly executed by a processing unit .
a quality of an information bearer that imparts the information content
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
an information content entity is an entity that is generically dependent on some artifact and stands in relation of aboutness to some entity
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a dot plot is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where each data point is represented by a single dot placed on coordinates corresponding to data point values in particular dimensions .
a diagram that presents one or more tuples of information by mapping those tuples in to a two dimensional space in a non arbitrary way .
a plan specification which describes the inputs and output of mathematical functions as well as workflow of execution for achieving an predefined objective .
the curation status of the term .
a data format specification is the information content borne by the document published defining the specification .
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
an image is an affine projection to a two dimensional surface ,  of measurements of some quality of an entity or entities repeated at regular intervals across a spatial range ,  where the measurements are represented as color and luminosity on the projected on surface .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a material entity in which a concretization of an information content entity inheres .
a histogram is a report graph which is a statistical description of a distribution in terms of occurrence frequencies of different event classes .
a heatmap is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where the values taken by a variable ( s )  are shown as colors in a two - dimensional map .
a dendrogram is a report graph which is a tree diagram frequently used to illustrate the arrangement of the clusters produced by a clustering algorithm .
a scatterplot is a graph which uses cartesian coordinates to display values for two variables for a set of data .
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
an information content entity consisting of a two dimensional arrangement of information content entities such that the arrangement itself is about something .
a figure that expresses one or more propositions
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a role borne by an infectious agent when contained in a host in which its infectious disposition can be realized .
a role borne by pathogen in virtue of the fact that it or one of its products is sufficiently close to an organism towards which it has the pathogenic disposition to allow realization of the pathogenic disposition .
a disposition borne by a biological macromolecule produced by a pathogen that is a disposition to undergo processes that increase the pathogen's virulence .
a role borne by an infectious disorder in virtue of the fact that  ( 1 )  the host has at least two distinct infectious disorders ,  where neither arose from the other through metastasis ,   ( 2 )  at the time the infectious disorder was established in the host ,  the host had no infectious disorder ,  and  ( 3 )  the infectious disorder increases the host's susceptibility to infectious disorders .
a role borne by an infectious disorder in virtue of the fact that  ( 1 )  the host has at least two distinct infectious disorders ,  where neither arose from the other through metastasis ,   ( 2 )  at the time the infectious disorder was established in the host ,  the host had a primary infectious disorder ,  and  ( 3 )  establishment of the infectious disorder occurs because of increased susceptibility to infectious disorders conferred by the primary infectious disorder .
a disease whose physical basis is an infectious disorder .
a disposition borne by a biological macromolecule that is the disposition to participate in adherence to a host .
a disposition to initiate processes that result in a disorder .
a pathogenic disposition that inheres in an organism and is a disposition for that organism  ( 1 )  to be transmitted to a host ,   ( 2 )  to establish itself in the host ,   ( 3 )  to initiate processes that result in a disorder in the host ,  and  ( 4 )  to become part of that disorder .
a quality that inheres in an entity and is the degree to which it can be harmed by another entity .
a susceptibility that inheres in an organism and is the degree to which it can be harmed by an infectious agent .
an infection comprised of infectious organisms from different species .
an infection for which the infectious agents that are part of the infection persist in the extracellular space of the host .
an infection for which the infectious agents that are part of the infection persist inside host cells .
an infection for which the infectious agents that are part of the infection are distributed throughout the host .
an infection for which the infectious agents that are part of the infection are limited to a relatively small area of the host's body .
a local infection for which symptoms are observed in parts of the host's extended organism that are distant from the infection .
an infectious disease course that begins soon after infection is established and progresses rapidly to severe stages .
a disease course that is the realization of an infectious disease .
an infection that is clinically abnormal .
an infection that has as part virus particles located in the blood .
an infection that has as part bacteria located in the blood .
a material entity with a pathogenic disposition .
an organism bearing a host role .
a biological macromolecule produced by a pathogen and that has a virulence factor disposition .
a biological macromolecule that has an adhesion disposition .
an infection bearing the primary infection role .
an infection bearing the secondary infection role .
an infection that is part of an asymptomatic host .
a part of an extended organism that itself has as part a population of one or more infectious agents and that  ( 1 )  exists as a result of processes initiated by members of the infectious agent population and is  ( 2 )  clinically abnormal in virtue of the presence of this infectious agent population ,  or  ( 3 )  has a disposition to bring clinical abnormality to immunocompetent organisms of the same species as the host  ( the organism corresponding to the extended organism )  through transmission of a member or offspring of a member of the infectious agent population .
an organism that has an infectious disposition .
an establishment of localization process in which a material entity reaches a site in an organism in which it can survive ,  grow ,  multiply ,  or mature .
a process by which a disorder comes into existence .
an infectious disorder that is the physical basis for an unfolding acute infectious disease course .
an infection that persists for an extended period of time .
host role is a role played by an organism and realized by providing nourishment ,  shelter or a means of reproduction to another organism within the organism playing the host role
an infection resulting from a transmission process that unfolds in a hospital .
an infection resulting from a transmission process that did not unfold in a health care facility .
an infection established as a result of spread from another infection in a non - adjacent location in the extended organism of the host .
an infection resulting from a transmission process that unfolds in a nursing home .
an infection comprised of infectious organisms all of the same species .
an infection that has as part organisms of the genus candida .
an infection that has as part organisms of the species trichomonas vaginalis .
an infection that has as part organisms of the genus leptospira .
an infection located in the bowel and that has as part organisms of the genus shigella .
an infection located in the colon and that has as part organisms of the species entamoeba histolytica
interaction is a processual entity that has two or more participants  ( i .e . ,  interactors )  that have an effect upon one another .
a regulatory role involved with making and / or enforcing relevant legislation and governmental orders
an interactor role that is borne by a material entity that acts as an input of an interaction .
an interactor role that is borne by a material entity that acts as an output of an interaction .
a positive regulator role that is borne by a material entity that activates an interaction .
a role that is borne by a material entity to act as a participant in an interaction process .
an interactor role that is played by a material entity that starts or speeds up a chemical reaction while undergoing no permanent change itself .
an interactor role that is borne by a material entity that positively regulates an interaction .
an interactor role that is borne by a material entity that negatively regulates an interaction .
a negative regulator role that is borne by a material entity that deactivates ,   inhibits ,  blocks ,  or disrupts the action of a biological agent  ( e .g . ,  enzyme )  .
an input interactor role that is borne by a material entity that motivates a process .
an input interactor role that is borne by a material entity  ( e .g .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a role which inheres in material entities and is realized in the processes of making ,  enforcing or being defined by legislation or orders issued by a governmental body .
a role realized through the process of supplying materials such as animal subjects ,  reagents or other materials used in an investigation .
a data set that is produced as the output of a class prediction data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned class labels .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a processed material that provides the needed nourishment for microorganisms or cells grown in vitro .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
a role borne by a material entity that is gained during a specimen collection process and that can be realized by use of the specimen in an investigation
a role that inheres in a vaccine component and plays an antigen role ,  i .e . ,  it is introducd into an immune - competent organism to cause an immune response
an entity that can bear roles ,  has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
a regulatory agency is a organization that has responsibility over or for  the legislation  ( acts and regulations )  for a given sector of the government .
an objective specifiction that creates an specific output object from input materials .
manufacturing is a process with the intent to produce a processed material which will have a function for future use .
is the objective to manufacture a material of a certain function  ( device ) 
manufacturer role is a role which inheres in a person or organization and which is realized by a manufacturing process .
is an objective to transform a material entity into spatially separated components .
a data set that is produced as the output of a class discovery data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned discovered class labels .
a planned process with the objective of collecting a specimen .
a class prediction data transformation  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class prediction .
a material separation objective aiming to separate material into multiple portions ,  each of which contains a similar composition of the input material .
a material separation objective aiming to separate a material entity that has parts of different types ,  and end with at least one output that is a material with parts of fewer types  ( modulo impurities )  .
a objective specification to obtain a material entity for potential use as an input during an investigation .
a support vector machine is a data transformation with a class prediction objective based on the construction of a separating hyperplane that maximizes the margin between two data sets of vectors in n - dimensional space .
a decision tree induction objective is a data transformation objective in which a tree - like graph of edges and nodes is created and from which the selection of each branch requires that some type of logical decision is made .
a decision tree building data transformation is a data transformation that has objective decision tree induction .
a software that provides access to more than 100 tools for gene expression analysis ,  proteomics ,  snp analysis and common data processing tasks .
peak matching is a data transformation performed on a dataset of a graph of ordered data points  ( e .g .
a k - nearest neighbors is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery or partitioning objective ,  in which an input data object with vector y is assigned to a class label based upon the k closest training data set points to y ;  where k is the largest value that class label is assigned .
a cart  ( classification and regression trees )  is a data transformation method for producing a classification or regression model with a tree - based structure .
a data transformation which assesses how the results of a statistical analysis will generalize to an independent data set .
an objective specification maintains some or all of the qualities of a material over time .
a person or organization that has a manufacturer role
a process with that achieves the objective to maintain some or all of the characteristics of an input material over time
is a role which inheres in a person or organization and is realized in in a planned process which provides access to training ,  materials or execution of protocols for an organization or person
a specimen that has been intentionally physically modified .
a label that is part of a categorical datum and that indicates the value of the data item on the categorical scale .
a document with a set of printed or written questions with a choice of answers ,  devised for the purposes of a survey or statistical study .
a specimen that derives from an anatomical part or substance arising from an organism .
a cultured cell that has been passaged or derives from a cell that has been passaged in culture .
a process whereby a new type of cell line is created ,  either through passaging of a primary cell culture to relative genetic stability and compositional homogeneity ,  or through some experimental modification of an existing cell line to produce a new line with novel characteristics   ( e .g .
a cultured cell population that is derived through one or more passages in culture .
a processed material that serves as a liquid vehicle for freezing cells for long term quiescent stroage ,  which contains chemicls needed to sustain cell viability across freeze - thaw cycles .
a value specification that is specifies one category out of a fixed number of nominal categories
an information content entity that specifies a value within a classification scheme or on a quantitative scale .
a material entity that has two or more specimens as its parts .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a tumor slide specimen according to the american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  7th edition grading system .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a tumor slide specimen according to the fuhrman nuclear grading system .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a ovarian tumor .
a histologic grade for ovarian tumor that is from a two - tier histological classification of tumors .
a histologic grade for ovarian tumor that is from a histological classification by the world health organization  ( who )  .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colorectal cancer following the rules of the tnm american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  version 7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  version 7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colorectal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colon cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a  pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of the stage of a cancer according to the american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  v7 staging systems .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of the stage of a gynecologic cancer according to the international federation of gynecology and obstetrics  ( figo )  staging systems .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the figo classification system .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of a participant's performance status  ( general well - being and activities of daily life )  .
a performance status value specification designed by the eastern cooperative oncology group to assess disease progression and its affect on the daily living abilities of the patient .
a performance status value specification designed for classifying patients 16 years of age or older by their functional impairment .
a material entity which results from viral transformation process using ebv as transformation agent when applied to b - cell entity
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a material entity that has the specimen role .
a processed material comprised of a collection of cultured cells that has been continuously maintained together in culture and shares a common propagation history .
a planned process that produces output data from input data .
is a data transformation :  leave - one - out cross - validation  ( loocv )  involves using a single observation from the original sample as the validation data ,  and the remaining observations as the training data .
a k - means clustering is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery or partitioning objective ,  which takes as input a collection of objects  ( represented as points in multidimensional space )  and which partitions them into a specified number k of clusters .
a hierarchical clustering is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery objective ,  which takes as input data item and builds a hierarchy of clusters .
a dimensionality reduction is data partitioning which transforms each input m - dimensional vector  ( x_1 ,  x_2 ,   . . . ,  x_m )  into an output n - dimensional vector  ( y_1 ,  y_2 ,   . . . ,  y_n )  ,  where n is smaller than m .
a principal components analysis dimensionality reduction is a dimensionality reduction achieved by applying principal components analysis and by keeping low - order principal components and excluding higher - order ones .
an planned process that creates images ,  diagrams or animations from the input data .
an objective specification to transformation input data into output data
a partitioning data transformation is a data transformation that has objective partitioning .
a partitioning objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to generate a collection of disjoint non - empty subsets whose union equals a non - empty input set .
a class discovery data transformation  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class discovery .
a class discovery objective  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to organize input data   ( typically vectors of attributes )  into classes ,  where the number of classes and their specifications are not known a priori .
a class prediction objective  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to create a predictor from training data through a machine learning technique .
a cross validation objective is a data transformation objective in which the aim is to partition a sample of data into subsets such that the analysis is initially performed on a single subset ,  while the other subset ( s )  are retained for subsequent use in confirming and validating the initial analysis .
a data visualization which has input of a clustered data set and produces an output of a report graph which is capable of rendering data of this type .
a material processing in which components of an input material become segregated in space
a protocol application in which cells are kept alive in a defined environment outside of an organism .
a process through which a new type of cell culture or cell line is created ,  either through the isolation and culture of one or more cells from a fresh source ,  or the deliberate experimental modification of an existing cell culture  ( e .g passaging a primary culture to become a secondary culture or line ,  or the immortalization or stable genetic modification of an existing culture or line )  .
the act of taking part of a homogeneous cell culture and creating one or more additional separate cultures of similar qualities .
a genome is a material entity that represents the entirety of an organism's hereditary information .
a gene is a material entity that represents the entire dna sequence required for synthesis of a functional protein or rna molecule .
a disposition that a gene can be used as a blueprint for generating a new form of product such as protein .
a gene type that is protein - coding ,  i .e . ,  the gene encodes for a protein .
a gene type that is trna ,  i .e . ,  this gene encodes for a rna .
a rna gene type that is trna ,  i .e . ,  this gene encodes for a rrna .
a rna gene type that is trna ,  i .e . ,  this gene encodes for a rrna .
a rna gene type that is trna ,  i .e . ,  this gene encodes for a trna .
a rna gene type that is scrna ,  i .e . ,  this gene encodes for a scrna .
a rna gene type that is snorna ,  i .e . ,  this gene encodes for a snorna .
a rna gene type that is miscrna ,  i .e . ,  this gene encodes for a miscrna .
a rna gene type that is ncrna ,  i .e . ,  this gene encodes for a ncrna .
a gene type that is pseudo ,  i .e . ,  the gene is a pseudogene .
a gene type that is transposon ,  i .e . ,  the gene encodes for a transposon .
a gene type that is "other" ,  i .e . ,  the gene is for a gene product that is not listed for another other gene type .
a gene type that is "unknown" ,  i .e . ,  the gene product is unknown .
the genome of an organism of bacteria
the genome of an organism of spirochaetales
the genome of an organism of borrelia burgdorferi
the genome of an organism of campylobacter jejuni
the genome of an organism of helicobacter pylori
the genome of an organism of brucella
the genome of an organism of brucella abortus
the genome of an organism of francisella tularensis
the genome of an organism of pseudomonas aeruginosa
the genome of an organism of rhizobiales
the genome of an organism of legionella pneumophila
the genome of an organism of neisseria meningitidis
the genome of an organism of bordetella
the genome of an organism of bordetella pertussis
the genome of an organism of enterobacteriaceae
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli
the genome of an organism of shigella
the genome of an organism of shigella boydii
the genome of an organism of shigella flexneri
the genome of an organism of yersinia  < bacteria > 
the genome of an organism of yersinia enterocolitica
the genome of an organism of yersinia pestis
the genome of an organism of yersinia pseudotuberculosis
the genome of an organism of vibrio cholerae
the genome of an organism of pasteurellaceae
the genome of an organism of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae
the genome of an organism of haemophilus influenzae
the genome of an organism of pasteurella multocida
the genome of an organism of bartonella
the genome of an organism of chlamydia
the genome of an organism of proteobacteria
the genome of an organism of gammaproteobacteria
the genome of an organism of firmicutes
the genome of an organism of staphylococcus aureus
the genome of an organism of streptococcus
the genome of an organism of streptococcus agalactiae
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes
the genome of an organism of enterococcus
the genome of an organism of enterococcus faecalis
the genome of an organism of enterococcus faecium
the genome of an organism of bacillales
the genome of an organism of bacillus anthracis
the genome of an organism of clostridium
the genome of an organism of clostridium botulinum
the genome of an organism of  [ clostridium ]  difficile
the genome of an organism of clostridium perfringens
the genome of an organism of listeria monocytogenes
the genome of an organism of mycobacterium
the genome of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis
the genome of an organism of eukaryota
the genome of an organism of saccharomycetales
the genome of an organism of saccharomycetaceae
the genome of an organism of saccharomyces cerevisiae
the genome of an organism of ajellomyces capsulatus
the genome of an organism of cryptococcus neoformans
the genome of an organism of candida
the genome of an organism of candida albicans
the genome of an organism of candida glabrata
the genome of an organism of trypanosomatidae
the genome of an organism of leishmania donovani
the genome of an organism of leishmania major
the genome of an organism of leishmania mexicana
the genome of an organism of leishmania infantum
the genome of an organism of trypanosoma
the genome of an organism of trypanosoma cruzi
the genome of an organism of entamoeba histolytica
the genome of an organism of apicomplexa
the genome of an organism of toxoplasma gondii
the genome of an organism of plasmodium
the genome of an organism of plasmodium berghei anka
the genome of an organism of plasmodium yoelii
the genome of an organism of exophiala dermatitidis
the genome of an organism of lythrurus
the genome of an organism of viruses
the genome of an organism of chordopoxvirinae
the genome of an organism of orthopoxvirus
the genome of an organism of cowpox virus
the genome of an organism of vaccinia virus
the genome of an organism of vaccinia virus tian tan
the genome of an organism of vaccinia virus wr
the genome of an organism of orf virus
the genome of an organism of sheeppox virus
the genome of an organism of leporipoxvirus
the genome of an organism of rabbit fibroma virus
the genome of an organism of myxoma virus
the genome of an organism of herpesviridae
the genome of an organism of alphaherpesvirinae
the genome of an organism of simplexvirus
the genome of an organism of human herpesvirus 1
the genome of an organism of herpes simplex virus  ( type 1  /  strain 17 ) 
the genome of an organism of human herpesvirus 2
the genome of an organism of varicellovirus
the genome of an organism of bovine herpesvirus 1
the genome of an organism of equid herpesvirus 1
the genome of an organism of felid herpesvirus 1
the genome of an organism of human herpesvirus 3
the genome of an organism of suid herpesvirus 1
the genome of an organism of gallid herpesvirus 1
the genome of an organism of gallid herpesvirus 2
the genome of an organism of african swine fever virus
the genome of an organism of rotavirus
the genome of an organism of alphavirus
the genome of an organism of ross river virus
the genome of an organism of sindbis virus
the genome of an organism of venezuelan equine encephalitis virus
the genome of an organism of western equine encephalomyelitis virus
the genome of an organism of flaviviridae
the genome of an organism of flavivirus
the genome of an organism of west nile virus
the genome of an organism of tick - borne encephalitis virus
the genome of an organism of yellow fever virus
the genome of an organism of classical swine fever virus
the genome of an organism of classical swine fever virus  -  brescia
the genome of an organism of feline infectious peritonitis virus
the genome of an organism of porcine respiratory coronavirus
the genome of an organism of mononegavirales
the genome of an organism of paramyxoviridae
the genome of an organism of paramyxovirinae
the genome of an organism of newcastle disease virus
the genome of an organism of human parainfluenza virus 3
the genome of an organism of measles virus
the genome of an organism of pneumovirinae
the genome of an organism of pneumovirus
the genome of an organism of bovine respiratory syncytial virus
the genome of an organism of human respiratory syncytial virus a2
the genome of an organism of rhabdoviridae
the genome of an organism of infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus
the genome of an organism of rabies virus
the genome of an organism of influenza a virus
the genome of an organism of bunyaviridae
the genome of an organism of la crosse virus
the genome of an organism of rift valley fever virus
the genome of an organism of hantaan virus
the genome of an organism of lentivirus
the genome of an organism of primate lentivirus group
the genome of an organism of feline immunodeficiency virus
the genome of an organism of human immunodeficiency virus 1
the genome of an organism of simian immunodeficiency virus
the genome of an organism of encephalomyocarditis virus
the genome of an organism of chicken anemia virus
the genome of an organism of ectromelia virus
the genome of an organism of burkholderia mallei
the genome of an organism of alphaproteobacteria
the genome of an organism of betaproteobacteria
the genome of an organism of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus
the genome of an organism of burkholderia pseudomallei
the genome of an organism of trichocomaceae
the genome of an organism of rotavirus a
the genome of an organism of brucella melitensis
the genome of an organism of yersinia ruckeri
the genome of an organism of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
the genome of an organism of opisthokonta
the genome of an organism of onygenales
the genome of an organism of bilateria
the genome of an organism of suid herpesvirus 1 strain kaplan
the genome of an organism of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 2
the genome of an organism of dsdna viruses ,  no rna stage
the genome of an organism of bovine herpesvirus 5
the genome of an organism of ssrna positive - strand viruses ,  no dna stage
the genome of an organism of ssrna negative - strand viruses
the genome of an organism of dictyochales
the genome of an organism of plasmodium falciparum 3d7
the genome of an organism of rotavirus c
the genome of an organism of clostridium botulinum a
the genome of an organism of bartonella henselae
the genome of an organism of leishmania  < subgenus > 
the genome of an organism of leishmania donovani species complex
the genome of an organism of circoviridae
the genome of an organism of cryptococcus neoformans var .
the genome of an organism of candida dubliniensis
the genome of an organism of shigella flexneri 2a
the genome of an organism of vibrio cholerae o139
the genome of an organism of autographa californica nucleopolyhedrovirus
the genome of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
the genome of an organism of legionella pneumophila serogroup 1
the genome of an organism of murine cytomegalovirus  ( strain k181 ) 
the genome of an organism of haemophilus influenzae rd kw20
the genome of an organism of plasmodium yoelii yoelii
the genome of an organism of mannheimia haemolytica
the genome of an organism of nidovirales
the genome of an organism of bovine herpesvirus type 1 .1
the genome of an organism of burkholderiales
the genome of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis cdc1551
the genome of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli k - 12
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli o157:h7
the genome of an organism of chlamydia pneumoniae
the genome of an organism of corynebacterineae
the genome of an organism of porcine circovirus 2
the genome of an organism of helicobacter pylori 26695
the genome of an organism of helicobacter pylori j99
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
the genome of an organism of bacilli
the genome of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
the genome of an organism of influenza a virus  ( a / goose / guangdong / 1 / 96 ( h5n1 )  ) 
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
the genome of an organism of h5n1 subtype
the genome of an organism of bartonella birtlesii
the genome of an organism of pseudomallei group
the genome of an organism of chlamydophila pneumoniae cwl029
the genome of an organism of legionellales
the genome of an organism of francisella tularensis subsp .
the genome of an organism of nipah virus
the genome of an organism of neisseria meningitidis mc58
the genome of an organism of neisseria meningitidis z2491
the genome of an organism of neisseria meningitidis serogroup c
the genome of an organism of chlamydophila pneumoniae j138
the genome of an organism of eurotiomycetes
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli o157:h7 str .
the genome of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
the genome of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes m1 gas
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes str .
the genome of an organism of emericella nidulans
the genome of an organism of listeria monocytogenes egd - e
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae tigr4
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae r6
the genome of an organism of francisella tularensis subsp .
the genome of an organism of weev complex
the genome of an organism of cryptococcus neoformans var .
the genome of an organism of chlamydophila pneumoniae tw - 183
the genome of an organism of trypanosoma brucei treu927
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas8232
the genome of an organism of zaire ebolavirus
the genome of an organism of clostridiales
the genome of an organism of lactobacillales
the genome of an organism of yersinia pestis kim10 + 
the genome of an organism of leptospira interrogans serovar lai str .
the genome of an organism of bacillus anthracis str .
the genome of an organism of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes ssi - 1
the genome of an organism of campylobacter jejuni rm1221
the genome of an organism of clostridium perfringens str .
the genome of an organism of clostridium perfringens atcc 13124
the genome of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
the genome of an organism of bacillus anthracis str .
the genome of an organism of shigella flexneri 2a str .
the genome of an organism of shigella flexneri 2a str .
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas315
the genome of an organism of coccidioides posadasii
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli cft073
the genome of an organism of brucella suis 1330
the genome of an organism of streptococcus agalactiae a909
the genome of an organism of streptococcus agalactiae 2603v / r
the genome of an organism of pseudomonas aeruginosa ucbpp - pa14
the genome of an organism of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
the genome of an organism of influenza a virus  ( a / puerto rico / 8 / 1934 ( h1n1 )  ) 
the genome of an organism of streptococcus agalactiae nem316
the genome of an organism of clostridium tetani e88
the genome of an organism of campylobacterales
the genome of an organism of yersinia pestis co92
the genome of an organism of cryptococcus neoformans var .
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
the genome of an organism of borrelia burgdorferi b31
the genome of an organism of brucella melitensis bv .
the genome of an organism of enterococcus faecalis v583
the genome of an organism of aspergillus nidulans fgsc a4
the genome of an organism of coxiella burnetii rsa 493
the genome of an organism of yersinia pestis biovar microtus str .
the genome of an organism of candida albicans sc5314
the genome of an organism of burkholderia mallei atcc 23344
the genome of an organism of vibrio cholerae o1 biovar el tor str .
the genome of an organism of corynebacterium diphtheriae nctc 13129
the genome of an organism of bordetella bronchiseptica rb50
the genome of an organism of bordetella pertussis tohama i
the genome of an organism of bacillus anthracis str .
the genome of an organism of bacillus anthracis str .
the genome of an organism of orgyia pseudotsugata mnpv
the genome of an organism of mycobacterium avium subsp .
the genome of an organism of listeria monocytogenes serotype 4b str .
the genome of an organism of pneumonia virus of mice j3666
the genome of an organism of bombyx mori npv
the genome of an organism of burkholderia pseudomallei k96243
the genome of an organism of chlamydia trachomatis d / uw - 3 / cx
the genome of an organism of clostridium difficile 630
the genome of an organism of legionella pneumophila subsp .
the genome of an organism of neisseria meningitidis fam18
the genome of an organism of pasteurella multocida subsp .
the genome of an organism of rickettsia prowazekii str .
the genome of an organism of staphylococcus aureus rf122
the genome of an organism of yersinia pseudotuberculosis ip 32953
the genome of an organism of haemophilus influenzae 86 - 028np
the genome of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
the genome of an organism of bartonella henselae str .
the genome of an organism of cryptococcus neoformans var .
the genome of an organism of influenza a virus  ( a / viet nam / 1203 / 2004 ( h5n1 )  ) 
the genome of an organism of candida glabrata cbs 138
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas10394
the genome of an organism of clostridium perfringens sm101
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas5005
the genome of an organism of entamoeba histolytica hm - 1:imss
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
the genome of an organism of legionella pneumophila str .
the genome of an organism of legionella pneumophila str .
the genome of an organism of shigella dysenteriae sd197
the genome of an organism of shigella boydii sb227
the genome of an organism of shigella sonnei ss046
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes serotype m1
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes serotype m3
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli str .
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli etec h10407
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas6180
the genome of an organism of burkholderia pseudomallei 1710b
the genome of an organism of burkholderia pseudomallei 668
the genome of an organism of burkholderia mallei savp1
the genome of an organism of burkholderia mallei nctc 10247
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
the genome of an organism of aspergillus fumigatus af293
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli e24377a
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli hs
the genome of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis f11
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes serotype m12
the genome of an organism of shigella boydii cdc 3083 - 94
the genome of an organism of sars coronavirus zj0301
the genome of an organism of vibrio cholerae o395
the genome of an organism of leishmania major strain friedlin
the genome of an organism of yersinia pestis angola
the genome of an organism of yersinia pseudotuberculosis ip 31758
the genome of an organism of plasmodium yoelii yoelii 17xnl
the genome of an organism of cryptosporidium parvum iowa ii
the genome of an organism of trypanosoma cruzi strain cl brener
the genome of an organism of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
the genome of an organism of burkholderia pseudomallei 1106a
the genome of an organism of brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308
the genome of an organism of bartonella bacilliformis kc583
the genome of an organism of yersinia pestis antiqua
the genome of an organism of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
the genome of an organism of bordetella avium 197n
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli 536
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli uti89
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas9429
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas10270
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas2096
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas10750
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae d39
the genome of an organism of shigella flexneri 5 str .
the genome of an organism of neisseria meningitidis 053442
the genome of an organism of francisella tularensis subsp .
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli o26:h - 
the genome of an organism of yersinia pestis nepal516
the genome of an organism of aeromonas salmonicida subsp .
the genome of an organism of bartonella tribocorum cip 105476
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli o157:h7 str .
the genome of an organism of yersinia pestis pestoides f
the genome of an organism of yersinia enterocolitica subsp .
the genome of an organism of legionella pneumophila str .
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli apec o1
the genome of an organism of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli se11
the genome of an organism of burkholderia mallei nctc 10229
the genome of an organism of yersinia pestis ca88 - 4125
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli b str .
the genome of an organism of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 5b str .
the genome of an organism of plasmodium  ( vinckeia ) 
the genome of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
the genome of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37ra
the genome of an organism of eimeriorina
the genome of an organism of legionella pneumophila 2300 / 99 alcoy
the genome of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
the genome of an organism of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 3 str .
the genome of an organism of ssrna viruses
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli sms - 3 - 5
the genome of an organism of clostridium botulinum a str .
the genome of an organism of clostridium botulinum a str .
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli o157:h7 str .
the genome of an organism of borrelia burgdorferi 156a
the genome of an organism of borrelia burgdorferi zs7
the genome of an organism of dikarya
the genome of an organism of eurotiomycetidae
the genome of an organism of francisella tularensis subsp .
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes nz131
the genome of an organism of enterococcus faecalis og1rf
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
the genome of an organism of paenibacillus sp .
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae taiwan19f - 14
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae hungary19a - 6
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae 70585
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae jja
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae p1031
the genome of an organism of clostridium botulinum b1 str .
the genome of an organism of clostridium botulinum a3 str .
the genome of an organism of edwardsiella tarda eib202
the genome of an organism of yersinia pseudotuberculosis ypiii
the genome of an organism of yersinia pseudotuberculosis pb1 /  + 
the genome of an organism of clostridium botulinum e3 str .
the genome of an organism of toxoplasma gondii me49
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli str .
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae g54
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae cgsp14
the genome of an organism of borrelia burgdorferi n40
the genome of an organism of borrelia burgdorferi 297
the genome of an organism of burkholderia pseudomallei mshr346
the genome of an organism of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 7 str .
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli o157:h7 str .
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
the genome of an organism of filobasidiella / cryptococcus neoformans species complex
the genome of an organism of cryptococcus gattii
the genome of an organism of streptococcus equi subsp .
the genome of an organism of listeria monocytogenes hcc23
the genome of an organism of pseudomonas aeruginosa lesb58
the genome of an organism of alphabaculovirus
the genome of an organism of saccharomyces cerevisiae s288c
the genome of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae atcc 700669
the genome of an organism of helicobacter pylori g27
the genome of an organism of listeria monocytogenes l99
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli vir68
the genome of an organism of bacillus anthracis str .
the genome of an organism of listeria monocytogenes serotype 4b str .
the genome of an organism of helicobacter pylori p12
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli o26:h11 str .
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli o127:h6 str .
the genome of an organism of vibrio cholerae m66 - 2
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli iai1
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli s88
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli 55989
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli umn026
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli iai39
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli o103:h2 str .
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli o111:h -  str .
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli ed1a
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
the genome of an organism of bacillus anthracis str .
the genome of an organism of helicobacter pylori b38
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli bw2952
the genome of an organism of sars coronavirus exon1
the genome of an organism of listeria monocytogenes 08 - 5923
the genome of an organism of listeria monocytogenes 08 - 5578
the genome of an organism of neisseria meningitidis alpha14
the genome of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
the genome of an organism of coronavirinae
the genome of an organism of alphacoronavirus 1
the genome of an organism of severe acute respiratory syndrome - related coronavirus
the genome of an organism of human metapneumovirus can97 - 83
the genome of an organism of mileewa branchiuma
the genome of an organism of staphylococcus aureus 04 - 02981
the genome of an organism of mycoplasma gallisepticum str .
the genome of an organism of saccharomyceta
the genome of an organism of legionella pneumophila 130b
the genome of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of bacteria
a gene of an organism of spirochaetales
a gene of an organism of borrelia burgdorferi
a gene of an organism of campylobacter jejuni
a gene of an organism of helicobacter pylori
a gene of an organism of brucella
a gene of an organism of brucella abortus
a gene of an organism of francisella tularensis
a gene of an organism of pseudomonas aeruginosa
a gene of an organism of rhizobiales
a gene of an organism of legionella pneumophila
a gene of an organism of neisseria meningitidis
a gene of an organism of bordetella
a gene of an organism of bordetella pertussis
a gene of an organism of enterobacteriaceae
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli
a gene of an organism of shigella
a gene of an organism of shigella boydii
a gene of an organism of shigella flexneri
a gene of an organism of yersinia  < bacteria > 
a gene of an organism of yersinia enterocolitica
a gene of an organism of yersinia pestis
a gene of an organism of yersinia pseudotuberculosis
a gene of an organism of vibrio cholerae
a gene of an organism of pasteurellaceae
a gene of an organism of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae
a gene of an organism of haemophilus influenzae
a gene of an organism of pasteurella multocida
a gene of an organism of bartonella
a gene of an organism of chlamydia
a gene of an organism of proteobacteria
a gene of an organism of gammaproteobacteria
a gene of an organism of firmicutes
a gene of an organism of staphylococcus aureus
a gene of an organism of streptococcus
a gene of an organism of streptococcus agalactiae
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes
a gene of an organism of enterococcus
a gene of an organism of enterococcus faecalis
a gene of an organism of enterococcus faecium
a gene of an organism of bacillales
a gene of an organism of bacillus anthracis
a gene of an organism of clostridium
a gene of an organism of clostridium botulinum
a gene of an organism of  [ clostridium ]  difficile
a gene of an organism of clostridium perfringens
a gene of an organism of listeria monocytogenes
a gene of an organism of mycobacterium
a gene of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis
a gene of an organism of eukaryota
a gene of an organism of saccharomycetales
a gene of an organism of saccharomycetaceae
a gene of an organism of saccharomyces cerevisiae
a gene of an organism of ajellomyces capsulatus
a gene of an organism of cryptococcus neoformans
a gene of an organism of candida
a gene of an organism of candida albicans
a gene of an organism of candida glabrata
a gene of an organism of trypanosomatidae
a gene of an organism of leishmania donovani
a gene of an organism of leishmania major
a gene of an organism of leishmania mexicana
a gene of an organism of leishmania infantum
a gene of an organism of trypanosoma
a gene of an organism of trypanosoma cruzi
a gene of an organism of entamoeba histolytica
a gene of an organism of apicomplexa
a gene of an organism of toxoplasma gondii
a gene of an organism of plasmodium
a gene of an organism of plasmodium berghei anka
a gene of an organism of plasmodium yoelii
a gene of an organism of exophiala dermatitidis
a gene of an organism of lythrurus
a gene of an organism of viruses
a gene of an organism of chordopoxvirinae
a gene of an organism of orthopoxvirus
a gene of an organism of cowpox virus
a gene of an organism of vaccinia virus
a gene of an organism of vaccinia virus tian tan
a gene of an organism of vaccinia virus wr
a gene of an organism of orf virus
a gene of an organism of sheeppox virus
a gene of an organism of leporipoxvirus
a gene of an organism of rabbit fibroma virus
a gene of an organism of myxoma virus
a gene of an organism of herpesviridae
a gene of an organism of alphaherpesvirinae
a gene of an organism of simplexvirus
a gene of an organism of human herpesvirus 1
a gene of an organism of herpes simplex virus  ( type 1  /  strain 17 ) 
a gene of an organism of human herpesvirus 2
a gene of an organism of varicellovirus
a gene of an organism of bovine herpesvirus 1
a gene of an organism of equid herpesvirus 1
a gene of an organism of felid herpesvirus 1
a gene of an organism of human herpesvirus 3
a gene of an organism of suid herpesvirus 1
a gene of an organism of gallid herpesvirus 1
a gene of an organism of gallid herpesvirus 2
a gene of an organism of african swine fever virus
a gene of an organism of rotavirus
a gene of an organism of alphavirus
a gene of an organism of ross river virus
a gene of an organism of sindbis virus
a gene of an organism of venezuelan equine encephalitis virus
a gene of an organism of western equine encephalomyelitis virus
a gene of an organism of flaviviridae
a gene of an organism of flavivirus
a gene of an organism of west nile virus
a gene of an organism of tick - borne encephalitis virus
a gene of an organism of yellow fever virus
a gene of an organism of classical swine fever virus
a gene of an organism of classical swine fever virus  -  brescia
a gene of an organism of feline infectious peritonitis virus
a gene of an organism of porcine respiratory coronavirus
a gene of an organism of mononegavirales
a gene of an organism of paramyxoviridae
a gene of an organism of paramyxovirinae
a gene of an organism of newcastle disease virus
a gene of an organism of human parainfluenza virus 3
a gene of an organism of measles virus
a gene of an organism of pneumovirinae
a gene of an organism of pneumovirus
a gene of an organism of bovine respiratory syncytial virus
a gene of an organism of human respiratory syncytial virus a2
a gene of an organism of rhabdoviridae
a gene of an organism of infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus
a gene of an organism of rabies virus
a gene of an organism of influenza a virus
a gene of an organism of bunyaviridae
a gene of an organism of la crosse virus
a gene of an organism of rift valley fever virus
a gene of an organism of hantaan virus
a gene of an organism of lentivirus
a gene of an organism of primate lentivirus group
a gene of an organism of feline immunodeficiency virus
a gene of an organism of human immunodeficiency virus 1
a gene of an organism of simian immunodeficiency virus
a gene of an organism of encephalomyocarditis virus
a gene of an organism of chicken anemia virus
a gene of an organism of ectromelia virus
a gene of an organism of burkholderia mallei
a gene of an organism of alphaproteobacteria
a gene of an organism of betaproteobacteria
a gene of an organism of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus
a gene of an organism of burkholderia pseudomallei
a gene of an organism of trichocomaceae
a gene of an organism of rotavirus a
a gene of an organism of brucella melitensis
a gene of an organism of yersinia ruckeri
a gene of an organism of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
a gene of an organism of opisthokonta
a gene of an organism of onygenales
a gene of an organism of bilateria
a gene of an organism of suid herpesvirus 1 strain kaplan
a gene of an organism of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 2
a gene of an organism of dsdna viruses ,  no rna stage
a gene of an organism of bovine herpesvirus 5
a gene of an organism of ssrna positive - strand viruses ,  no dna stage
a gene of an organism of ssrna negative - strand viruses
a gene of an organism of dictyochales
a gene of an organism of plasmodium falciparum 3d7
a gene of an organism of rotavirus c
a gene of an organism of clostridium botulinum a
a gene of an organism of bartonella henselae
a gene of an organism of leishmania  < subgenus > 
a gene of an organism of leishmania donovani species complex
a gene of an organism of circoviridae
a gene of an organism of cryptococcus neoformans var .
a gene of an organism of candida dubliniensis
a gene of an organism of shigella flexneri 2a
a gene of an organism of vibrio cholerae o139
a gene of an organism of autographa californica nucleopolyhedrovirus
a gene of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of legionella pneumophila serogroup 1
a gene of an organism of murine cytomegalovirus  ( strain k181 ) 
a gene of an organism of haemophilus influenzae rd kw20
a gene of an organism of plasmodium yoelii yoelii
a gene of an organism of mannheimia haemolytica
a gene of an organism of nidovirales
a gene of an organism of bovine herpesvirus type 1 .1
a gene of an organism of burkholderiales
a gene of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis cdc1551
a gene of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli k - 12
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli o157:h7
a gene of an organism of chlamydia pneumoniae
a gene of an organism of corynebacterineae
a gene of an organism of porcine circovirus 2
a gene of an organism of helicobacter pylori 26695
a gene of an organism of helicobacter pylori j99
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of bacilli
a gene of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of an organism of influenza a virus  ( a / goose / guangdong / 1 / 96 ( h5n1 )  ) 
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of h5n1 subtype
a gene of an organism of bartonella birtlesii
a gene of an organism of pseudomallei group
a gene of an organism of chlamydophila pneumoniae cwl029
a gene of an organism of legionellales
a gene of an organism of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of an organism of nipah virus
a gene of an organism of neisseria meningitidis mc58
a gene of an organism of neisseria meningitidis z2491
a gene of an organism of neisseria meningitidis serogroup c
a gene of an organism of chlamydophila pneumoniae j138
a gene of an organism of eurotiomycetes
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli o157:h7 str .
a gene of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes m1 gas
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes str .
a gene of an organism of emericella nidulans
a gene of an organism of listeria monocytogenes egd - e
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae tigr4
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae r6
a gene of an organism of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of an organism of weev complex
a gene of an organism of cryptococcus neoformans var .
a gene of an organism of chlamydophila pneumoniae tw - 183
a gene of an organism of trypanosoma brucei treu927
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas8232
a gene of an organism of zaire ebolavirus
a gene of an organism of clostridiales
a gene of an organism of lactobacillales
a gene of an organism of yersinia pestis kim10 + 
a gene of an organism of leptospira interrogans serovar lai str .
a gene of an organism of bacillus anthracis str .
a gene of an organism of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes ssi - 1
a gene of an organism of campylobacter jejuni rm1221
a gene of an organism of clostridium perfringens str .
a gene of an organism of clostridium perfringens atcc 13124
a gene of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of an organism of bacillus anthracis str .
a gene of an organism of shigella flexneri 2a str .
a gene of an organism of shigella flexneri 2a str .
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas315
a gene of an organism of coccidioides posadasii
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli cft073
a gene of an organism of brucella suis 1330
a gene of an organism of streptococcus agalactiae a909
a gene of an organism of streptococcus agalactiae 2603v / r
a gene of an organism of pseudomonas aeruginosa ucbpp - pa14
a gene of an organism of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of influenza a virus  ( a / puerto rico / 8 / 1934 ( h1n1 )  ) 
a gene of an organism of streptococcus agalactiae nem316
a gene of an organism of clostridium tetani e88
a gene of an organism of campylobacterales
a gene of an organism of yersinia pestis co92
a gene of an organism of cryptococcus neoformans var .
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of borrelia burgdorferi b31
a gene of an organism of brucella melitensis bv .
a gene of an organism of enterococcus faecalis v583
a gene of an organism of aspergillus nidulans fgsc a4
a gene of an organism of coxiella burnetii rsa 493
a gene of an organism of yersinia pestis biovar microtus str .
a gene of an organism of candida albicans sc5314
a gene of an organism of burkholderia mallei atcc 23344
a gene of an organism of vibrio cholerae o1 biovar el tor str .
a gene of an organism of corynebacterium diphtheriae nctc 13129
a gene of an organism of bordetella bronchiseptica rb50
a gene of an organism of bordetella pertussis tohama i
a gene of an organism of bacillus anthracis str .
a gene of an organism of bacillus anthracis str .
a gene of an organism of orgyia pseudotsugata mnpv
a gene of an organism of mycobacterium avium subsp .
a gene of an organism of listeria monocytogenes serotype 4b str .
a gene of an organism of pneumonia virus of mice j3666
a gene of an organism of bombyx mori npv
a gene of an organism of burkholderia pseudomallei k96243
a gene of an organism of chlamydia trachomatis d / uw - 3 / cx
a gene of an organism of clostridium difficile 630
a gene of an organism of legionella pneumophila subsp .
a gene of an organism of neisseria meningitidis fam18
a gene of an organism of pasteurella multocida subsp .
a gene of an organism of rickettsia prowazekii str .
a gene of an organism of staphylococcus aureus rf122
a gene of an organism of yersinia pseudotuberculosis ip 32953
a gene of an organism of haemophilus influenzae 86 - 028np
a gene of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of an organism of bartonella henselae str .
a gene of an organism of cryptococcus neoformans var .
a gene of an organism of influenza a virus  ( a / viet nam / 1203 / 2004 ( h5n1 )  ) 
a gene of an organism of candida glabrata cbs 138
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas10394
a gene of an organism of clostridium perfringens sm101
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas5005
a gene of an organism of entamoeba histolytica hm - 1:imss
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of legionella pneumophila str .
a gene of an organism of legionella pneumophila str .
a gene of an organism of shigella dysenteriae sd197
a gene of an organism of shigella boydii sb227
a gene of an organism of shigella sonnei ss046
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes serotype m1
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes serotype m3
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli str .
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli etec h10407
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas6180
a gene of an organism of burkholderia pseudomallei 1710b
a gene of an organism of burkholderia pseudomallei 668
a gene of an organism of burkholderia mallei savp1
a gene of an organism of burkholderia mallei nctc 10247
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of aspergillus fumigatus af293
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli e24377a
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli hs
a gene of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis f11
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes serotype m12
a gene of an organism of shigella boydii cdc 3083 - 94
a gene of an organism of sars coronavirus zj0301
a gene of an organism of vibrio cholerae o395
a gene of an organism of leishmania major strain friedlin
a gene of an organism of yersinia pestis angola
a gene of an organism of yersinia pseudotuberculosis ip 31758
a gene of an organism of plasmodium yoelii yoelii 17xnl
a gene of an organism of cryptosporidium parvum iowa ii
a gene of an organism of trypanosoma cruzi strain cl brener
a gene of an organism of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
a gene of an organism of burkholderia pseudomallei 1106a
a gene of an organism of brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308
a gene of an organism of bartonella bacilliformis kc583
a gene of an organism of yersinia pestis antiqua
a gene of an organism of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
a gene of an organism of bordetella avium 197n
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli 536
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli uti89
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas9429
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas10270
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas2096
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes mgas10750
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae d39
a gene of an organism of shigella flexneri 5 str .
a gene of an organism of neisseria meningitidis 053442
a gene of an organism of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli o26:h - 
a gene of an organism of yersinia pestis nepal516
a gene of an organism of aeromonas salmonicida subsp .
a gene of an organism of bartonella tribocorum cip 105476
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli o157:h7 str .
a gene of an organism of yersinia pestis pestoides f
a gene of an organism of yersinia enterocolitica subsp .
a gene of an organism of legionella pneumophila str .
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli apec o1
a gene of an organism of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli se11
a gene of an organism of burkholderia mallei nctc 10229
a gene of an organism of yersinia pestis ca88 - 4125
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli b str .
a gene of an organism of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 5b str .
a gene of an organism of plasmodium  ( vinckeia ) 
a gene of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37ra
a gene of an organism of eimeriorina
a gene of an organism of legionella pneumophila 2300 / 99 alcoy
a gene of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of an organism of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 3 str .
a gene of an organism of ssrna viruses
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli sms - 3 - 5
a gene of an organism of clostridium botulinum a str .
a gene of an organism of clostridium botulinum a str .
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli o157:h7 str .
a gene of an organism of borrelia burgdorferi 156a
a gene of an organism of borrelia burgdorferi zs7
a gene of an organism of dikarya
a gene of an organism of eurotiomycetidae
a gene of an organism of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pyogenes nz131
a gene of an organism of enterococcus faecalis og1rf
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of paenibacillus sp .
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae taiwan19f - 14
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae hungary19a - 6
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae 70585
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae jja
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae p1031
a gene of an organism of clostridium botulinum b1 str .
a gene of an organism of clostridium botulinum a3 str .
a gene of an organism of edwardsiella tarda eib202
a gene of an organism of yersinia pseudotuberculosis ypiii
a gene of an organism of yersinia pseudotuberculosis pb1 /  + 
a gene of an organism of clostridium botulinum e3 str .
a gene of an organism of toxoplasma gondii me49
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli str .
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae g54
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae cgsp14
a gene of an organism of borrelia burgdorferi n40
a gene of an organism of borrelia burgdorferi 297
a gene of an organism of burkholderia pseudomallei mshr346
a gene of an organism of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 7 str .
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli o157:h7 str .
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of filobasidiella / cryptococcus neoformans species complex
a gene of an organism of cryptococcus gattii
a gene of an organism of streptococcus equi subsp .
a gene of an organism of listeria monocytogenes hcc23
a gene of an organism of pseudomonas aeruginosa lesb58
a gene of an organism of alphabaculovirus
a gene of an organism of saccharomyces cerevisiae s288c
a gene of an organism of streptococcus pneumoniae atcc 700669
a gene of an organism of helicobacter pylori g27
a gene of an organism of listeria monocytogenes l99
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli vir68
a gene of an organism of bacillus anthracis str .
a gene of an organism of listeria monocytogenes serotype 4b str .
a gene of an organism of helicobacter pylori p12
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli o26:h11 str .
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli o127:h6 str .
a gene of an organism of vibrio cholerae m66 - 2
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli iai1
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli s88
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli 55989
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli umn026
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli iai39
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli o103:h2 str .
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli o111:h -  str .
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli ed1a
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of an organism of bacillus anthracis str .
a gene of an organism of helicobacter pylori b38
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli bw2952
a gene of an organism of sars coronavirus exon1
a gene of an organism of listeria monocytogenes 08 - 5923
a gene of an organism of listeria monocytogenes 08 - 5578
a gene of an organism of neisseria meningitidis alpha14
a gene of an organism of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of an organism of coronavirinae
a gene of an organism of alphacoronavirus 1
a gene of an organism of severe acute respiratory syndrome - related coronavirus
a gene of an organism of human metapneumovirus can97 - 83
a gene of an organism of mileewa branchiuma
a gene of an organism of staphylococcus aureus 04 - 02981
a gene of an organism of mycoplasma gallisepticum str .
a gene of an organism of saccharomyceta
a gene of an organism of legionella pneumophila 130b
a gene of an organism of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of campylobacter jejuni that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia enterocolitica that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of enterococcus faecalis that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of clostridium botulinum that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of clostridium perfringens that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of listeria monocytogenes that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of plasmodium berghei anka that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of cowpox virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of vaccinia virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of sheeppox virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of rabbit fibroma virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of myxoma virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of human herpesvirus 1 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of human herpesvirus 2 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of bovine herpesvirus 1 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of felid herpesvirus 1 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of human herpesvirus 3 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of suid herpesvirus 1 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of gallid herpesvirus 1 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of gallid herpesvirus 2 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of african swine fever virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of ross river virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of classical swine fever virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of feline infectious peritonitis virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of measles virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of bovine respiratory syncytial virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of rabies virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of la crosse virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of hantaan virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of feline immunodeficiency virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of human immunodeficiency virus 1 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of simian immunodeficiency virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of ectromelia virus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of rotavirus a that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of bovine herpesvirus 5 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of plasmodium falciparum 3d7 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of rotavirus c that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of autographa californica nucleopolyhedrovirus that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of haemophilus influenzae rd kw20 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis cdc1551 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of porcine circovirus 2 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of helicobacter pylori 26695 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of helicobacter pylori j99 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of influenza a virus  ( a / goose / guangdong / 1 / 96 ( h5n1 )  )  that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of chlamydophila pneumoniae cwl029 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of neisseria meningitidis mc58 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of neisseria meningitidis z2491 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of chlamydophila pneumoniae j138 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli o157:h7 str .
a gene of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes m1 gas that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes str .
a gene of listeria monocytogenes egd - e that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pneumoniae tigr4 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pneumoniae r6 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of chlamydophila pneumoniae tw - 183 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes mgas8232 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis kim10 +  that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of leptospira interrogans serovar lai str .
a gene of bacillus anthracis str .
a gene of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes ssi - 1 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of campylobacter jejuni rm1221 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of clostridium perfringens str .
a gene of clostridium perfringens atcc 13124 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of bacillus anthracis str .
a gene of shigella flexneri 2a str .
a gene of shigella flexneri 2a str .
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes mgas315 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli cft073 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of brucella suis 1330 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus agalactiae a909 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus agalactiae 2603v / r that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of pseudomonas aeruginosa ucbpp - pa14 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of influenza a virus  ( a / puerto rico / 8 / 1934 ( h1n1 )  )  that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus agalactiae nem316 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of clostridium tetani e88 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis co92 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of cryptococcus neoformans var .
a gene of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of borrelia burgdorferi b31 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of brucella melitensis bv .
a gene of enterococcus faecalis v583 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of aspergillus nidulans fgsc a4 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of coxiella burnetii rsa 493 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis biovar microtus str .
a gene of candida albicans sc5314 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of burkholderia mallei atcc 23344 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of vibrio cholerae o1 biovar el tor str .
a gene of corynebacterium diphtheriae nctc 13129 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of bordetella bronchiseptica rb50 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of bordetella pertussis tohama i that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of bacillus anthracis str .
a gene of bacillus anthracis str .
a gene of orgyia pseudotsugata mnpv that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of mycobacterium avium subsp .
a gene of listeria monocytogenes serotype 4b str .
a gene of bombyx mori npv that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of burkholderia pseudomallei k96243 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of chlamydia trachomatis d / uw - 3 / cx that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of clostridium difficile 630 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of legionella pneumophila subsp .
a gene of neisseria meningitidis fam18 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of pasteurella multocida subsp .
a gene of rickettsia prowazekii str .
a gene of staphylococcus aureus rf122 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia pseudotuberculosis ip 32953 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of haemophilus influenzae 86 - 028np that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of bartonella henselae str .
a gene of cryptococcus neoformans var .
a gene of candida glabrata cbs 138 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes mgas10394 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of clostridium perfringens sm101 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes mgas5005 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of entamoeba histolytica hm - 1:imss that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of legionella pneumophila str .
a gene of legionella pneumophila str .
a gene of shigella dysenteriae sd197 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of shigella boydii sb227 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of shigella sonnei ss046 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli str .
a gene of escherichia coli etec h10407 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes mgas6180 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of burkholderia pseudomallei 1710b that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of burkholderia pseudomallei 668 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of burkholderia mallei savp1 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of burkholderia mallei nctc 10247 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of aspergillus fumigatus af293 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli e24377a that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli hs that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis f11 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of shigella boydii cdc 3083 - 94 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of vibrio cholerae o395 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of leishmania major strain friedlin that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis angola that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia pseudotuberculosis ip 31758 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of plasmodium yoelii yoelii 17xnl that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of cryptosporidium parvum iowa ii that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of trypanosoma cruzi strain cl brener that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
a gene of burkholderia pseudomallei 1106a that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of bartonella bacilliformis kc583 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis antiqua that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
a gene of bordetella avium 197n that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli 536 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli uti89 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes mgas9429 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes mgas10270 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes mgas2096 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes mgas10750 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pneumoniae d39 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of shigella flexneri 5 str .
a gene of neisseria meningitidis 053442 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of escherichia coli o26:h -  that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis nepal516 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of aeromonas salmonicida subsp .
a gene of bartonella tribocorum cip 105476 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli o157:h7 str .
a gene of yersinia pestis pestoides f that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia enterocolitica subsp .
a gene of legionella pneumophila str .
a gene of escherichia coli apec o1 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
a gene of escherichia coli se11 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of burkholderia mallei nctc 10229 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis ca88 - 4125 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli b str .
a gene of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 5b str .
a gene of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37ra that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of legionella pneumophila 2300 / 99 alcoy that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 3 str .
a gene of escherichia coli sms - 3 - 5 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of clostridium botulinum a str .
a gene of clostridium botulinum a str .
a gene of escherichia coli o157:h7 str .
a gene of borrelia burgdorferi 156a that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of borrelia burgdorferi zs7 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of streptococcus pyogenes nz131 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of paenibacillus sp .
a gene of streptococcus pneumoniae taiwan19f - 14 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pneumoniae hungary19a - 6 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pneumoniae 70585 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pneumoniae jja that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pneumoniae p1031 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of clostridium botulinum b1 str .
a gene of clostridium botulinum a3 str .
a gene of edwardsiella tarda eib202 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia pseudotuberculosis ypiii that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of yersinia pseudotuberculosis pb1 /  +  that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of clostridium botulinum e3 str .
a gene of toxoplasma gondii me49 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli str .
a gene of streptococcus pneumoniae g54 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pneumoniae cgsp14 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of borrelia burgdorferi n40 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of borrelia burgdorferi 297 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of burkholderia pseudomallei mshr346 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 7 str .
a gene of escherichia coli o157:h7 str .
a gene of streptococcus equi subsp .
a gene of listeria monocytogenes hcc23 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of pseudomonas aeruginosa lesb58 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of saccharomyces cerevisiae s288c that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of streptococcus pneumoniae atcc 700669 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of helicobacter pylori g27 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli vir68 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of bacillus anthracis str .
a gene of listeria monocytogenes serotype 4b str .
a gene of helicobacter pylori p12 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli o26:h11 str .
a gene of escherichia coli o127:h6 str .
a gene of vibrio cholerae m66 - 2 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli iai1 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli s88 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli 55989 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli umn026 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli iai39 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli o103:h2 str .
a gene of escherichia coli o111:h -  str .
a gene of escherichia coli ed1a that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of bacillus anthracis str .
a gene of helicobacter pylori b38 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of escherichia coli bw2952 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of listeria monocytogenes 08 - 5923 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of listeria monocytogenes 08 - 5578 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of neisseria meningitidis alpha14 that has a protein - coding gene type
a gene of staphylococcus aureus subsp .
a gene of mycoplasma gallisepticum str .
a gene of feline infectious peritonitis virus that has a pseudo gene type
a gene of haemophilus influenzae rd kw20 that has a pseudo gene type
a gene of salmonella enterica subsp .
a gene of streptococcus pneumoniae tigr4 that has a pseudo gene type
a gene of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of campylobacter jejuni subsp .
a gene of brucella suis 1330 that has a pseudo gene type
a gene of vibrio cholerae o1 biovar el tor str .
a gene of listeria monocytogenes serotype 4b str .
a gene of clostridium difficile 630 that has a pseudo gene type
a gene of brucella melitensis biovar abortus 2308 that has a pseudo gene type
a gene of neisseria meningitidis 053442 that has a pseudo gene type
a gene of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of aeromonas salmonicida subsp .
a gene of escherichia coli iai39 that has a pseudo gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis co92 that has a miscrna gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis biovar microtus str .
a gene of yersinia pestis angola that has a miscrna gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis antiqua that has a miscrna gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis nepal516 that has a miscrna gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis pestoides f that has a miscrna gene type
a gene of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of yersinia pestis co92 that has a rna gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis biovar microtus str .
a gene of yersinia pestis angola that has a rna gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis antiqua that has a rna gene type
a gene of francisella tularensis subsp .
a gene of yersinia pestis nepal516 that has a rna gene type
a gene of yersinia pestis pestoides f that has a rna gene type
a gene of haemophilus influenzae rd kw20 that has a other gene type
a gene of brucella suis 1330 that has a other gene type
a gene of plasmodium yoelii yoelii 17xnl that has a other gene type
a material entity which is clinically abnormal and part of an extended organism .
the totality of all processes through which a given disease instance is realized .
an object aggregate consisting of an organism and all material entities located within the organism ,  overlapping the organism ,  or occupying sites formed in part by the organism .
a process that involves an interaction between a host and a pathogen which can be a virus ,  bacterium ,  parasite ,  fungus ,  etc .
a virulence factor role that is inherited in a gene that can encode for a protein ,  and either the gene or the protein will play the role of a virulence factor .
a role that is inherited in a pathogen molecule that makes the pathogen virulence in terms of colonization ,  immunoevasion ,  immunosuppression ,  entry into or exit out of host cell ,  and obtaining nutrient from the host .
a virulence factor role that is inherited in a protein
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
a behavioral quality inhering ina bearer by virtue of the bearer's unequal distribution of fine motor skill between its left and right hands or feet .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the left hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the right hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism exhibits no overall dominance in the use of right or left hand or foot in the performance of tasks that require one hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
a biological macromolecule that is composed of amino acids linked in a linear sequence  ( a polypeptide chain )  and is genetically encoded .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
a process that is the means during which the pathogen is transmitted directly or indirectly from its natural reservoir ,  a susceptible host or source to a new host .
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
lower ,  narrow portion of the uterus where it joins with the top end of the vagina .
the olfactory organ of vertebrates ,  consisting of nares ,  olfactory epithelia and the structures and skeletal framework of the nasal cavity .
a layer of dense irregular connective tissue that lines organs and supports the mucosa ,  as well as joins the mucosa to the bulk of underlying smooth muscle .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
part of peripheral nervous system that includes the somatic parts of the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors .
the sympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system  ( the other being the parasympathetic nervous system )  .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
an organ of sight that includes the camera - type eyeball and supporting structures such as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the conjunctiva ,  the eyelid .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
major subdivision of an organism that protrudes from the body [ dos ,  caro ]  .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer  ( mesothelium )  and a connective tissue layer .
dense regular connective tissue that connects muscle to bone [ vsao ]  .
a biological tissue mass ,  most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies .
an eye with one concave chamber .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
muscular duct that propels urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder ,  or related organs .
the fibromuscular tubular canal through which urine is discharged from the bladder to the exterior via the external urinary meatus ;  in males ,  the urethra is joined by the ejaculatory ducts and serves as a passageway for semen during ejaculation ,  as well as a canal for urine during voiding ;  in females ,  the urethra is shorter and emerges above the vaginal opening
a tubular structure that transports secreted or excreted substances .
a subdivision of the digestive tract that connects the small intestine to the cloaca or anus .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a part of an organ that constitutes a distinct modular sub - unit .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
anatomical structure that is part of the respiratory system .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
end of the life of an organism .
an section of a respiratory tract .
any part or collection of parts of the central or peripheral nervous system .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements and articular elements that are part of an individual subdivision of the organism .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
the second stage of the kidney .
in mammals ,  the metanephros is the excretory organ of the fetus ,  which develops into the mature kidney and is formed from the rear portion of the nephrogenic cord .
a mesonephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the mesonephros [ go ]  .
an epithelial swelling on the wolffian duct that elongates to invade the adjacent metanephric mesenchyme [ mp ] 
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
portion of neural crest that develops from the dorsal neural tube .
the lung vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs [ go ]  .
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
the stage of being a sexually mature adult animal .
the connective tissue located between the respiratory  ( airway and alveolar )  epithelium ,  the capillary endothelium and pleural mesothelium ;  it contains basement membrane composed of collagen ,  elastin ,  proteoglycans ,  and fibronectin
the epithelial layer of the lung .
a tube in the respiratory system .
structure derived from foregut that becomes a lung [ go ]  .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the cns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections ,  and including nearby cells that share the same cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
nucleus that receives projections from or contains neurons that send projections through one of the cranial nerves
the group of motor neurons residing in the pons that innervate the muscles of facial expression
the terminal part of the large intestine ,  continuous proximally with the rectum and distally terminates with the anus .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism )  [ fma , modified ]  .
common chamber into which the intestines and excretory system opens .
endoderm - lined chamber that develops as pouch - like dilation of the caudal end of the hindgut and receives the allantois ventrally and two mesonephric ducts laterally ;  caudally it ends blindly at the cloacal membrane formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm [ mp ]  .
the ventral part of the cloaca remaining after septation of the rectum ,  which further develops into part of the bladder ,  part of the prostatic part of the male urethra and the urethra and vestibule in females
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
a section dividing a colon along a proximal - distal axis .
the pair of anatomical structures comprised of a left lung and right lung .
organ that functions in gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
a layer of membrane around a tendon .
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a substance produced by the cervix and endocervical glands [ bto ]  .
mucosa that is part of a colon .
the branched tubular glands found in the mucosa of the fundus and body of the stomach which contain parietal cells that secrete hydrochloric acid and zymogenic cells that produce pepsin .
the wall of the digestive tract .
a gland that is part of the intestinal mucosa .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
a mucosa that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the palate ,  upper teeth and gingiva ,  the skin between the palpebral fissure and the mouth ,  and from the nasal cavity and maxillary sinuses .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory airway .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
tissue that surrounds the lens nucleus
the core of the crystalline lens ,  surrounded by the cortex .
an epithelium that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the nasal vestibule is the most anterior part of the nasal cavity .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are serous secreting cells .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are mucus secreting cells .
an anatomical wall that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
the region of the opening of the uterine cervix into the uterine cavity .
an anatomical wall that is part of a uterus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
the organs and associated structures associated with bearing offspring in a female animal .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
unilaminar epithelium which consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
mucus is a bodily fluid consisting of a slippery secretion of the lining of the mucous membranes in the body .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
the subdivision of the vertebrate body between the thorax and pelvis .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
anterior part of the embryonic digestive tract that develops into a mouth .
inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into an ectodermal terminal part of the digestive tract .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce endocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
the retina is the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an organ that detects light .
an organism subdivision that extends from the head to the pectoral girdle ,  encompassing the cervical vertebral column .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
the part of the central nervous system lying between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain ,  ventral to the cerebellum .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
the gonad of a female organism which contains germ cells
a tube or collection of tubes in an animal from the ovaries to the outside of the body .
the female muscular organ of gestation in which the developing embryo or fetus is nourished until birth
a fibromuscular tubular tract leading from the uterus to the exterior of the body in female placental mammals and marsupials ,  or to the cloaca in female birds ,  monotremes ,  and some reptiles [ wp ]  .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
an airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the renal system in an anatomical system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products . .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
an enclosed ,  cable - like bundle of axons in the peripheral nervous system originating in a nerve root in the central nervous system  ( or a condensed nervous structure )  connecting with peripheral structures .
a nerve that transmits from sensory receptors on the surface of the body to the central nervous system .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
the sensory system for the sense of taste .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
a portion of the respiratory and digestive tracts ;  its distal limit is the superior part of the esophagus and it connects the nasal and oral cavities with the esophagus and larynx ;  it contains the valleculae and the pyriform recesses ;  its upper limits are the nasal cavity and cranial base .
middle subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
the caudalmost subdivision of a digestive tract .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
in the developing vertebrate ,  the neural tube is the embryo's precursor to the central nervous system ,  which comprises the brain and spinal cord .
the terminal portion of the intestinal tube ,  terminating with the anus
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a zone of skin that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to to the throat ,  neck glands ,  tongue ,  face ,  mouth ,  ear ,  scalp and dura mater of the meninges [ mp ] 
it ascends beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius ,  distributing branches to it ,  and to the neighboring muscles and lymph glands in the neck ,  and anastomosing with the superficial branch of the descending branch of the occipital artery .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
a zone of skin that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
joint fluid is a transudate of plasma that is actively secreted by synovial cells .
muscle tissue composed of cardiac muscle cells ,  forming the muscles of the heart [ zfa , modified ]  .
muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
simple squamous epithelium of mesodermal origin which lines serous membranes .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
either of the pair of major vessels which arise from the renal hilus and return blood from the kidneys ,  suprarenal gland and the ureter to the inferior vena cava .
a renal vein that drains the right kidney
a renal vein that drains the left kidney
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from its corresponding ovary to inferior vena cava or one of its tributaries .
last portion of the large intestine before it becomes the rectum .
the part of the large intestine that is closest to the rectum and anus .
the layered structure that makes up the stomach ,  typiclly consists of a serous coat ,  a muscular coat ,  a mucous membrane ,  and other tissue layers in between
an anatomical wall that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the kidneys .
renal artery that supplies the right kidney
renal artery that supplies the left kidney
an artery that supplies an ovary .
the mucosal layer that lines the stomach .
the fibrous connective tissue layer beneath the stomach mucosa
the outermost layer of the stomach wall ,  consisting of layers of connective tissue continuous with the peritoneum
a mucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that drains blood from the large intestine that usually terminates when reaching the splenic vein ,  which goes on to form the portal vein with the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  .
an ureter that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ureter that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a funnel shaped proximal portion of the ureter that is formed by convergence of the major calices  [ mp ]  .
mucosal layer that lines the intestine .
a serous membrane that is part of a wall of intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
orifice at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth .
an adventitia that is part of a ureter .
distensible musculomembranous organ situated in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity in which urine collects before excretion [ mp ]  .
an anatomical wall that lines the insider of a urinary bladder .
the constricted portion of the urinary bladder ,  formed by the meeting of its inferolateral surfaces proximal to the opening of the urethra [ mp ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the urinary bladder
a serous membrane that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the organism subdivision that includes the pelvic girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
the epithelial layer of the stomach  .
epithelial layer that lines the intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the glandular mucous membrane lining of the uterine cavity that is hormonally responsive during the estrous / menstrual cycle and during pregnancy
outer serosa layer of the uterus .
a fallopian tube that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a fallopian tube that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery that supplies blood to the upper urinary bladder .
a vein that begins near the upper part of the greater sciatic foramen ,  passes upward behind and slightly medial to the hypogastric artery and ,  at the brim of the pelvis ,  joins with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein .
one the veins that drains the vaginal venous plexus ,  into the hypogastric veins .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the pelvis .
a urethra that is part of a female reproductive system .
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the male or female urethra that help protect the epithelium from the corrosive urine
the epithelial layer of the vagina .
the anus and surrounding regions .
a zone of skin that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organism subdivision that includes the pectoral girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
a subdivision of the head that has as parts the layers deep to the surface of the anterior surface ,  including the mouth ,  eyes ,  and nose  ( when present )  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
an articular capsule  ( or joint capsule )  is an envelope surrounding a synovial joint .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the descending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two - pass circulatory system from the arch of aorta to the point where it divides into the common iliac arteries [ go ]  .
the part of the aorta that extends from the origin at the heart to the diaphragm ,  and from which arises numerous branches that supply oxygenated blood to the chest cage and the organs within the chest
abdominal part of aorta: the distal part of the descending aorta ,  which is the continuation of the thoracic part and gives rise to the inferior phrenic ,  lumbar ,  median sacral ,  superior and inferior mesenteric ,  middle suprarenal ,  renal ,  and testicular or ovarian arteries ,  and celiac trunk [ bto ]  .
a bilaterally paired branched artery that originates from the aortic arches and divides into and includes as parts the internal and external carotid arteries [ cjm ]  .
a tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the urinary bladder and the urethra .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the nose and ends distally with the cricoid cartilage ,  before continuing to the trachea .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
the muscles associated with the larynx .
a muscle innervated by a facial nerve .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
one of two jugular veins that collect the blood from the brain ,  the superficial parts of the face ,  and the neck .
the bronchial veins are small vessels that return blood from the larger bronchi and structures at the roots of the lungs .
the ciliary muscle is a ring of smooth muscle in the middle layer of the eye that controls the eye's accommodation for viewing objects at varying distances and regulates the flow of aqueous humour through schlemm's canal .
a branch of the external carotid artery that supplies structures of the face .
an artery that supplies deep structures of the face .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
an epithelial tube or tree of tibes that transports blood away from the heart [ modified from aeo definition ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
cranial nerve that has three branches  -  the ophthalmic  ( supplying the skin of the nose and upper jaw )  ,  the maxillary and the mandibular  ( supplying the lower jaw )  .
cranial nerve that branches into the supraorbital  ( supplying the skin of the eye region and the lateral line organs here )  ,  the palatine  ( to the roof of the buccal cavity )  ,  and the hyomandibular  ( dividing into the jugular and mental branches )  .
cranial nerve that branches into the ramus communicans  ( to the skin )  ,  the pretrematic  ( to the walls of the pharynx and mouth ,  viscero - sensory fibers )  ,  and the larval post - trematic branch  ( lost in the adult )  .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the right lung .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the left lung .
the anterior facial vein  ( facial vein )  commences at the side of the root of the nose ,  and is a direct continuation of the angular vein where it also receives a small nasal branch .
the cranial ganglion that is associated with and extends fibers into the trigeminal nerve .
the bone at the lower ,  posterior part of the skull
the large ,  irregular bone located at the base and side of the skull ;  consists of three parts at birth: squamous ,  tympanic ,  and petrous
sense organ in vertebrates that is specialized for the detection of sound ,  and the maintenance of balance .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the facial nerve  ( seventh cranial nerve ) 
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the ninth cranial nerve .
subdivision of skeletal system that surrounds and protects the brain .
an anatomical cavity that is part of the olfactory apparatus .
subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons .
subdivision of head that consists of the lower jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
the groups of nerve cell bodies associated with the twelve cranial nerves
a specialized receptor organ that is a collection of cells spanning the gustatory epithelium .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pharynx .
a continuation of the pharynx that is involved in breathing ,  sound production ,  and protecting the trachea against food aspiration .
the cartilaginous structures that support the larynx .
cranial nerve that branches into the lateral  ( to body sense organs )  and the intestino - accessorial  ( to the skin ,  muscles of shoulder ,  hyoid ,  larynx ,  gut ,  lungs ,  and heart )  .
the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens
the pigmented middle of the three concentric layers that make up an eye ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body and choroid [ wp , edited ]  .
the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye
the smooth stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea
opaque fibrous outer layer of the eyeball [ zfa , kardong , wp ]  .
a skeletal muscle organ that is part of the trunk region .
the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris ,  composed of ciliary muscle and ciliary processes
vascular layer containing connective tissue ,  of the eye lying between the retina and the sclera .
a double layer covering the ciliary body that produces aqueous humor .
the any of the paired peripheral nerves formed by the union of the dorsal and ventral spinal roots from each spinal cord segment [ mp , modified ] 
any of the layers that make up the retina [ mp ]  .
cranial nerves are nerves that emerge directly from the brain ,  in contrast to spinal nerves ,  which emerge from segments of the spinal cord .
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
the clusters of neurons in the somatic peripheral nervous system which contain the cell bodies of sensory nerve axons ,  interneurons and non - neuronal supporting cells .
any of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive ) 
any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive ) 
a layer of epithelial cells that is part of the eye .
the elastic ,  clear ,  membrane - like structure ,  that is outer most layer of the lens
ganglion that has dendrites that form a junction between autonomic nerves originating from the central nervous system and autonomic nerves innervating their target organs in the periphery .
a ganglion of the sympathetic nervous system .
one of the cartilage structures in the nose that provide form and support [ wp ]  .
the mucous lining of the larynx ,  which is composed of squamous epithelium in the upper larynx and ciliated columnar epithelium in the lower larynx .
the mucous membrane that lines the nasal cavity [ mp ]  .
one of the two fleshy folds which surround the opening of the mouth .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
complex labyrinthine structure that comprises sensory endorgans specialized for vestibular ,  auditory ,  and acoustico - vestibular sensation .
the midbrain is the middle division of the three primary divisions of the developing chordate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain  ( in vertebrates ,  includes a ventral part containing the cerebral peduncles and a dorsal tectum containing the corpora quadrigemina and that surrounds the aqueduct of sylvius connecting the third and fourth ventricles )  [ go ]  .
a segment of the developing hindbrain [ zfa ]  .
rostral segment of the hindbrain that has as its parts the pons  ( where present )  and the cerebellum [ wp , modified ]  .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures [ fma ]  .
the epithelial lining of the trachea which contains numerous ciliated cells
an endothelium that is part of a capillary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vein  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
ventral part of the midbrain ,  separated from the hindbrain by the isthmus [ isbn10:0471888893 ]  .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a spinal cord .
the hyaline cartilaginous structures that support the bronchi ,  present as irregular rings in the larger bronchi  ( and not as regular as in the trachea )  ,  and as small plates and islands in the smaller bronchi ;  as the branching continues through the bronchial tree ,  the amount of hyaline cartilage in the walls decreases until it is absent in the smallest bronchioles [ mp ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the liquid component of blood ,  in which erythrocytes are suspended .
one of the minute vessels that collect deoxygenated blood from the capillary plexuses returns it to the veins
the smallest division of the artery located between the muscular arteries and the capillaries [ go ]  .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
a monolayer of specialized ,  flattened ,  mitochondria - rich cells that lines the posterior surface of the cornea and faces the anterior chamber of the eye [ wp ]  .
a layer of epithelium that lines the heart ,  blood vessels  ( endothelium ,  vascular )  ,  lymph vessels  ( endothelium ,  lymphatic )  ,  and the serous cavities of the body [ mesh ]  .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
cartilage tissue primarily composed of type ii collagen  ( thin fibrils )  and a glassy appearance .
an artery that carries deoxygenated blood from heart to the lungs .
the tough fibrous layer surrounding the kidney which is covered in a thick layer of perirenal adipose tissue that functions to provide some protection from trauma and damage
pulmonary veins are blood vessels that transport blood from the lungs to the heart [ go ]  .
a cranial nerve that originates from neurons in the medulla and in the cervical spinal cord .
a nervous system structure composed primarily of nerve cell bodies  ( somas )  .
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
muscle tissue that contains fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations .
a systemic artery that supplies the lung with with oxygenated blood .
the pontine raphe nucleus is one of the raphe nuclei .
respiration organ that develops as an oupocketing of the esophagus .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
the truncus arteriosus and bulbus cordis are divided by the aorticopulmonary septum .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
an organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the right side of the heart .
cardiac chamber through which blood leaves the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the left side of the heart .
the postcranial subdivision of skeleton structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins ;  in human consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis [ zfa + fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton which which consists of all the skeletal elements in in the pectoral and pelvic appendage complexes [ cjm ]  .
cardiac septum which separates the right ventricle from the left ventricle .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the thin membranous structure between the two heart atria or the thick muscular structure between the two heart ventricles .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
sensory system responsible for the perception of spatial orientation and auditory stimuli .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a paired organ of the urinary tract which has the production of urine as its primary function .
an ovary that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ovary that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
in mammals ,  the pronephros is the first of the three embryonic kidneys to be established and exists only transiently .
a a collection of brainstem nuclei that functions in multiple aspects of hearing and is an important component of the ascending and descending auditory pathways of the auditory system .
the locus ceruleus is a dense cluster of neurons within the dorsorostral pons .
nucleus containing parasympathetic neurons giving rise to the parasympathetic division of the facial nerve ,  innervating the salivary glands  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 703 )  .
the endocardium is an anatomical structure comprised of an endothelium and an extracellular matrix that forms the innermost layer of tissue of the heart ,  and lines the heart chambers [ go ]  .
lung which consists of the right upper lobe ,  middle lobe and right lower lobe .
lung which consists of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe .
the upper conducting airways of the lung ;  these airways arise from the terminus of the trachea
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
anatomical cluster consisting of the hematopoietic system and the lymphoid system ,  or its analogs .
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a trachea .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by cartilage .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by an articular capsule which encloses a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
the part of the coelemic cavity lumen that is enclosed by the walls of the thorax .
part of the central nervous system located in the vertebral canal continuous with and caudal to the brain ;  demarcated from brain by plane of foramen magnum .
endoskeletal elements that encase the brain ,  nose ,  inner ear [ cjm ]  .
an organ that houses olfactory neurons and is responsible for the sense of smell .
a composite substructure of the brainstem that consists of the midbrain reticular formation ,  the pontine reticular formation and the medullary reticular formation  (  carpenter - 1983  )  .
stalk - like part of the brain that includes amongst its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain [ zfa , mp , generalized ]  .
a neural nucleus that is part of the brain .
the ridge - shaped grey matter of the spinal cord that extends longitudunally through the center of each half of the spinal cord ,  and are largely or entirely composed of nerve cell bodies and their dendrites and some supportive tissue .
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
any muscle organ that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the urethra is a renal system organ that carries urine from the bladder to outside the body .
a flexible rod - shaped body found in embryos of all chordates .
somites are spheres of epithelial cells that form sequentially along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo through mesenchymal to epithelial transition of the presomitic mesoderm .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce exocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
an arterial trunk which is continuous with the heart and branches into the pulmonary arteries .
a specialized region of ectoderm found between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm and composed of highly migratory pluripotent cells that delaminate in early embryonic development from the dorsal neural tube and give rise to an astounding variety of differentiated cell types [ mp ]  .
set of all muscles in abdomen .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
the cardiac conduction system consists of specialized cardiomyocytes that regulate the frequency of heart beat [ go ] 
the lower segment of the trunk ,  inferioposterior to the abdomen proper ,  in the transition area between the trunk and the lower limbs .
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products directly into the circulatory system rather than through a duct .
any skeletal muscle that is part of the head region .
any muscle that is part of the cervical  ( neck )  region .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the abdomen .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
anatomical system that is involved in the production of hematopoietic cells .
the autonomic nervous system is composed of neurons that are not under conscious control ,  and is comprised of two antagonistic components ,  the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
the abdominal segment of the torso .
skeletal tissue that is avascular ,  rich in glycosaminoglycans  ( gags )  and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae .
a gland that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of the mouth and lines the oral cavity ,  typically stratified squamous ,  and may be para -  ,  ortho -  or non -  keratinized .
a blood vessel that is part of a choroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous secreting gland associated with the mucuous membrane lining the uterus .
arteries that supply the spinal cord .
a tributary of the iliac vein that drains the urinary bladder .
clear to pale yellow watery secretions from the glands lining the small intestine walls .
skeletal tissue with a collagen - rich extracellular matrix vascularized ,  mineralized with hydroxyapatite and typically including osteocytes located in lacunae that communicate with one another by cell processes  ( in canaliculi )  .
an epithelium that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
connective tissue composed of elastic fibers .
the middle layer of an artery or vein .
the innermost layer of a blood vessel which is a lining of endothelial cells facing the lumen [ kardong ]  .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
one of a series of paired bulges that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
the cavity that is enclosed by the central nervous system .
anatomical divisons of the brain according to one or more criteria ,  e .g .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a trigeminal nuclear complex .
a sensory epithelium that is part of a gustatory system .
dorsal portion of the pons ,  containing cranial nervee nuclei ,  ascending and descending tracts and reticular nuclei .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
a thick plate of cells derived from the neural ectoderm in the head region of the embryo that develops into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
an epithelial sac of invaginated ectoderm formed from the otic placode that gives rise to the structures of the inner ear [ mp ] 
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
a temporary epithelium that derives from the outer layer of the ectdoerm and is shed once the inner layer differentiates to form a true epidermis .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
in mammals ,  the pronephric duct is the predecessor of the wolffian duct [ wp ]  .
blood islands are structures in the developing embryo which lead to many different parts of the circulatory system .
a horseshoe - shaped thickening of the endoderm at the cranial  ( rostral )  end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells which ,  together with the notochord ,  induces the formation of the neural plate from the overlying ectodermal cells and contributes mesodermal type cells to the surrounding tissue
the intermediate mesoderm is located between the lateral mesoderm and the paraxial mesoderm .
the second pharyngeal arch will form the hyoid apparatus .
lateral neurogenic placodes positioned dorsal of the epibranchial placodes .
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
a cranial placode which ,  once specified ,  invaginates to form an otic cup ,  which eventually separates from the surface ectoderm to form the otic vesicle or otocyst ,  a rounded structure without appar -  ent polarity .
a neurogenic placode that arises at the level of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary and develops into a trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye [ zfa ]  .
a thickened portion of ectoderm which serves as the precursor to the lens .
paired organ that connects the primitive kidney wolffian body  ( or mesonephros )  to the cloaca and serves as the anlage for certain male reproductive organs .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
the paraxial mesoderm is the mesoderm located bilaterally adjacent to the notochord and neural tube [ go ] 
focal thickenings of the embryonic ectoderm that form immediately dorsal and caudal of the clefts between the pharyngeal arches and that produce the neuroblasts that migrate and condense to form the distal cranial ganglia .
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become muscle cells .
trunk portion of the neural crest .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardical precursors laterally .
ventral somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton [ xao ]  .
neural crest cells  ( nccs )  originating in the anterior part of the developing embryo and residing between the mid - diencephalon and the forming hindbrain ;  cranial nccs migrate dorsolaterally to form the craniofacial mesenchyme that differentiates into various craniofacial cartilages and bones ,  cranial neurons ,  glia ,  and connective tissues of the face ;  these cells enter the pharyngeal pouches and arches where they give rise to thymic cells ,  bones of the middle ear and jaw  ( mandible )  ,  and the odontoblasts of the tooth primordia ;  like their counterparts in the trunk ,  cranial nccs also contribute to the developing peripheral nervous system ,  along with the pigmented cell  ( i .e .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
portion of tissue consisting of loosely organized undifferentiated mesodermal cells that give rise to such structures as connective tissues ,  blood ,  lymphatics ,  bone ,  and cartilage [ xao ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that includes all dermal bones in the cranial skeleton [ zfa , modified ]  .
contributes to development of the cartilage of the larynx ,  laryngeal ,  pharyngeal ,  and soft palate muscles ,  superior parathyroid gland ,  and c - cells of the thymus
the 6th pharyngeal arch .contributes to the development of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles
the vessels formed within the first pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the second pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the fourth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the sixth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the trachea is the portion of the airway that attaches to the bronchi as it branches  [ go:dph ]  .
upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible  ( when present in the organism )  .
anatomical structure that is part of the head consisting entirely of cranium and mandible [ wp ]  .
an organ involved in reproduction
a female organ involved in reproduction
any sense organ that functions in  ( some )  detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of taste  ( go:0050912 )  .
septum that divides the ovary ,  the basal portion of a carpel or group of fused carpels ,  that encloses the ovule ( s )  [ go ]  .
one of the two embryological structures that give rise to the kidney  ( the other is the ureteric bud )  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a otic placode  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the lower part of the mouth .
an endothelium that is part of a trachea .
a gland that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
racemose mucous glands beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
a gland that is part of a integumental system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood island that is part of a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing ovary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the rectum .
a submucosa that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the pns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
a ganglion that is part of a central nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
an epithelium that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a midgut .
an epithelium that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pelvic appendage bud .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pectoral appendage bud .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage element that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
an adipose tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any nerve that innervates the iris .
a nerve that is part of the trunk region of the body  ( not to be confused with a nerve trunk )  .
a nerve that is located in a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a facial skeleton  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ureteral branches of renal artery are small branches which supply the ureter .
an artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the iinferior labial artery  ( inferior labial branch of facial artery )  arises near the angle of the mouth ;  it passes upward and forward beneath the triangularis and ,  penetrating the orbicularis oris ,  runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane .
an artery that is part of a thoracic cavity [ cjm ]  .
a vein that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the lower lip .
a vein that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a venule that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arteriole that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a cornea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trachea .
a blood vessel that is part of the arterial system .
a blood vessel that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trachea .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ring - shaped cartilaginous structures that support the trachea
a skin gland that is part of a camera - type eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense connective tissue which contains predominantly elastic fibers and is found in the tunica media of the aorta wall .
the type of heart connective tissue found in the endocardial layer that consists mainly of elastic fibers .
an elastic tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a circulatory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
elastic tissue layer that lines a blood vessel layer .
elastic tissue that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the middle layer of the aorta wall ,  containing the smooth muscle layer and elastic fibers .
the innermost layer of the aorta ,  containing the endothelium and an inner elastic membrane .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdomen proper  ( excluding the pelvic cavity )  .
in anatomy ,  in the occipital bone ,  the foramen magnum is one of the several oval or circular apertures in the base of the skull ,  through which the medulla oblongata  ( an extension of the spinal cord )  enters and exits the skull vault .
the tissues that surround the organs that are present within the abdominal cavity .
a vein arising from the splenic trabecular vein in the hilum of the spleen that drains into the portal vein .
portion of tissue in the nervous system which consists of neurons and glial cells ,  and may also contain parts of the vasculature .
the major nerves supplying sympathetic innervation to the abdomen ,  including the greater ,  lesser ,  and lowest  ( or smallest )  splanchnic nerves that are formed by preganglionic fibers from the spinal cord which pass through the paravertebral ganglia and then to the celiac ganglia and plexuses and the lumbar splanchnic nerves carry fibers which pass through the lumbar paravertebral ganglia to the mesenteric and hypogastric ganglia .
a branch of the vagus nerve that supplies motor function and sensation to the larynx  ( voice box )  .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
a nerve that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle tissue that is part of the urethra .
any muscle organ that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skin of body that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a neural tube .
in medicine ,  gonadal vein refers to the blood vessel that carrying blood away from the gonad  ( testis ,  ovary )  toward the heart .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a midbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a hindbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a spinal cord .
a neural plate that develops_from a future spinal cord .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing gonad  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a ganglion .
an anatomical cavity that has the potential to develop into a coelemic cavity lumen .
the part of the coelom in the embryo between the somatopleuric and splanchnopleuric mesoderm ;  the principal body cavities of the trunk  ( thoracic ,  abdominal ,  and pelvic )  arise from this embryonic part of the coelom
initial section of the oviduct through which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus
paired ducts of the embryo that run down the lateral sides of the urogenital ridge and terminate at the mullerian eminence in the primitive urogenital sinus .
one of the skeletal muscles of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue in the trunk .
the part of the retina that contains neurons and photoreceptor cells [ go ]  .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues ,  with tube shape and organization varying from the single - celled excretory organ in caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system .
any endothelium that has the quality of being cylindrical  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
kidney mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the kidney [ go ]  .
a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart
a duct that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines the lumen of the digestive tract .
a cartilage element of chondrocranium .
a cartilage element that is part of the cranial skeleton .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction .
the sensory system for the sense of touch and pain .
the slender connective tissue fiber in the extracellular matrix of skin tissue that is composed of microfibrils and amorphous elastin and is characterized by great elasticity
the internal feminine genital organs ,  including the ovaries ,  uterine tubes ,  uterus ,  uterine cervix ,  and vagina .
a conical pouch formed from the upper and left angle of the right ventricle in the chordate heart ,  from which the pulmonary artery arises [ wp ]  .
the funnel - like expansion of the abdominal extremity of the uterine tube [ mp ] 
the connection between the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
the single layer of epithelial cells that lines the early neural tube and develops into the nervous system and into the neural crest cells
the layer of undifferentiated ,  proliferating cells that line the neural tube lumen that is the immediate transformation of the germinal neuroepithelium
the layer of glia and differentiating neurons that forms as a second layer around the germinal neuroepithium ;  as this develops it comes to lie between the ventricular and marginal layers and includes the basal and alar plates .
the outermost layer of the neural tube that consists of axons from the developing mantle layer and will form the white matter
the region of the mantle layer of the neural tube that lies ventral to the sulcus limitans and contains primarily motor neurons and interneurons .
any of the veins that carries deoxygenated blood from a part of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
the subdivision of the face that includes the eye  ( eyeball plus adnexa such as eyelids )  and the orbit of the skull and associated parts of the face such as the eyebrows ,  if present
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
a vasculature that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine and those concerned with reproduction .
the optic vesicle is the evagination of neurectoderm that precedes formation of the optic cup [ go ]  .
the first recognizable structure derived from the heart field
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the primary beating heart tube .
an epithelial tube that will give rise to the mature heart .
the outflow tract septum is a partition in the outflow tract
the outflow tract is the portion of the heart through which blood flows into the arteries
vein of heart that drains the myocardium
a cardiac chamber surrounds an enclosed cavity within the heart
the internal genitalia are the internal sex organs such as the uterine tube ,  the uterus and the vagina in female mammals ,  and the testis ,  seminal vesicle ,  ejaculatory duct and prostate in male mammals
the external genitalia are the outer sex organs ,  such as the penis or vulva in mammals
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue located in the wall of the aorta
a portions of the gut that is derived from endoderm .
a nerve that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the urothelium of the kidney pelvis
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the dorsal region of an animal .
any muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is part of the eye region .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a cone - like structure that is formed when myocardial progenitor cells of the heart field fuse at the midline .
a blood vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the primitive streak is a structure that forms during the early stages of avian ,  reptilian and mammalian embryonic development [ wp ]  .
the embryonic structure that gives rise to the corneal ectoderm
multilayered ectodermal region at the distal tip of a limb or fin bud necessary for the proper development of the underlying mesenchyme [ mp , modified ]  .
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb or paired fin .
the first of the series of pharyngeal arches that develop into jaw bones or their homologs ,  and their associated nerves and arteries
one of a series of paired embryological vascular structures formed within a pharyngeal arch ;  in the adult ,  some of these vessels give rise to the great vessels [ mp ] 
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer ,  6 to 9 um thick ,  lying between the basal lamina of the outer layer of stratified epithelium and the substantia propria of the cornea ;  it is considered to be a basement membrane .
a bone that is part of an appendage  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an embryo at the neurula stage .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
any collection of skeletal muscles that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the musculature of the body in the pectoral girdle region .
any collection of muscles that is part of a face .
the collection of muscles that are part of the larynx .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a cardiac septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a myocardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
a vascular network consisting of blood vessels .
a kidney that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a kidney that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the arterial system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all arteries .
an artery of the systemic circulation ,  which is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart ,  to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the venous system that drains the general body tissues [ kardong ] 
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all venous vessels .
an endothelium that lines the blood vasculature .
an anatomical wall that is part of an aorta ,  enclosing the luminal space .
the outermost layer of the aorta wall ,  containing connective tissue and collagen and elastic fibers
the membranous portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
the muscular portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
the raphe nuclei are thin plates of cells in and immediately adjacent to the sagittal plane .
the costocervical trunk arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery ,  behind the scalenus anterior on the right side ,  and medial to that muscle on the left side .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vena cava  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a transient fetal dilation of the distal  ( or cranial )  heart tube located where the arterial trunk joins the ventral roots of the aortic arches
an appendage that is part of an appendage girdle complex .
paired appendage that consists of the posterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pelvic girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
paired appendage that consists of the anterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pectoral girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
the jugular veins are veins that bring deoxygenated blood from the head back to the heart via the superior vena cava .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
a transverse unitary subdivision of the neural tube that shares a common dorsoventral structure  ( floor ,  basal ,  alar ,  and roof plates )  ,  but each having differential molecular identities and fates ;  they comprise the secondary prosencephalon ,  diencephalon  ( prosomeres )  ,  the midbrain  ( mesomeres )  ,  and the hindbrain  ( rhombomeres )  .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
an organ subunit that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism at the gastrula stage .
a specialized form of connective tissue in which the extracellular matrix is firm ,  providing the tissue with resilience ,  and / or mineralized and that functions in mechanical and structural support .
dermis - derived entity that is made of skeletal tissue .
a gland that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the primitive cartilagionous skeletal structure of the fetal skull that grows to envelop the rapidly growing embyonic brain .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
a bone that is part of a cranium .
any bone that is part of the lower jaw skeleton .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
a submucosa that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a cardiac ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract
a mucosa that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
a mucous gland that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucous gland that is part of the skin .
any of the tissue layers that comprise a blood vessel .
an epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi
an epithelium that is part of a oviduct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of an endometrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a upper respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the kidney luminar surfaces
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thin layer of flat cells that line the aorta and form a barrier between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall
an endothelium that is part of the cardiovascular system .
a connective tissue that surrounds a skeletal muscle tissue .
a gland that is part of a eye .
a vasculature that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the inner  ( or splanchnic )  layer adheres to the endoderm ,  and with it forms the splanchnopleure [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the outer  ( or somatic )  layer becomes applied to the inner surface of the ectoderm ,  and with it forms the somatopleure .
a portion of the urogenital ridge which is the source of much of the urinary system [ wp ]  .
one of of the pair of folds derived from the cloacal folds which give rise to a portion of the external genitalia ;  in male embryos they close over the urethral plate and fuse to form the spongy  ( penile )  urethra and ventral aspect of the penis ,  not including the glans ;  failure of fusion of the urethral folds leads to hypospadias ;  in female embryos they fuse only anterior to the anus and form the labia minora [ mp ]  .
the central region of trunk mesoderm .
the mass of tissue made up of mesenchymal cells in the lung .
the fetal urogenital sinus  ( from which the prostate derives )  is a simple cylinder of stratified basal epithelium ,  surrounded by mesenchyme and positioned between the embryonic bladder and pelvic urethra
a neuron projection bundle that connects the retina or its analog in the eye with the brain .
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the beginning of the intestines to the anus [ go  -  gut definition ]  .
an epithelium surrounding a gonad .
an epithelium surrounding an ovary .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the pharynx .
a submucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the urinary bladder .
a submucosa that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a renal pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a female urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lower lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external genitalia that is part of a female reproductive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a hemolymphoid system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a hindbrain and adjacent_to a spinal cord .
the portion of the ureteric bud tube that contributes to the morphogenesis of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the portion of the ureteric bud that contributes to the morphogenesis of the ureter .
a hole in a tube [ go ]  .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a mesonephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metanephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
an epithelium is a tissue that covers the internal or external surfaces of an anatomical structure [ go ]  .
any smooth muscle tissue that is part of a metanephros .
the metanephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the metanephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
a bud is a protrusion that forms from an epithelial sheet by localized folding .
any anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
an organ or element that is in the abdomen .
an organ or element that is part of the adbominal segment of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the dorsum of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ or element that is part of the pelvic region .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
a vein that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a larynx submucosa  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endocardium that is part of a interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a bulbus cordis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a renal pelvis that is part of a metanephros .
a gland that is part of a stomodeum .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
the posterior part of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the medulla oblongata and a portion of the fourth ventricle ;  as well as the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cn ix )  ,  vagus nerve  ( cn x )  ,  accessory nerve  ( cn xi )  ,  hypoglossal nerve  ( cn xii )  ,  and a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cn viii )  .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
the endothelial lining of the endocardium .
an pulmonary artery endothelium is an epithelium that lines the pulmonary artery [ go ]  .
mesonephric mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
a ventricular outflow tract is a portion of either the left ventricle or right ventricle of the heart through which blood passes in order to enter the great arteries .
an outflow tract that is part of a aorta .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the vagus nerve
an epithelium that lines the nasal cavity .
an array of photoreceptors and any supporting cells found in an eye .
a transparent structure that is part of a visual sense organ ,  the function of which is to direct or focus light onto a photoreceptor array .
one of: the common carotid artery ,  or its branches ,  the external and internal carotid arteries .
a sex gland that is part of a female reproductive system .
the part of the digestive system that excludes the hepatobiliary system .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb or pectoral fin .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb or pelvic fin .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
portion of tissue that is the inner layer of the optic cup and will become the neural retina .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
portion of tissue that is part of the eye and gives rise to the mature ,  fully layered cornea .
vagal neural crest is adjacent to the first seven somites gives rise to both ganglionic and ectomesenchymal derivatives [ zfa ]  .
the dilated structure that is lined by endothelial cells and located at the arterial pole of the heart just above  ( distal to )  the truncus arteriosus in mammalian embryos ;  it is the primordial vascular channel from which the aortic arches  ( and eventually the dorsal aortae )  arise ;  the aortic sac is homologous to the ventral aorta of gill - bearing vertebrates
the jugular foramen is a large aperture in the base of the skull .
a longitudinal groove in the neural tube wall that divides the neural tube into dorsal  ( alar )  and ventral  ( basal )  halves  ( dorsal receives input from sensory neurons ,  ventral effects motor functions )  ;  stretches from the mesencephalon caudad [ tmd ]  .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the glossopharyngeal ganglion .
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
a neural tube lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
cranial neural crest that gives rise to the facio - acoustic ganglion .
somite located in the head region ,  caudal to the otic vesicle
a pair of lateral diverticula just over the liver rudiment representing the primordia of the lungs ,  formed by the floor of the foregut just anterior to the liver diverticulum .
a somite that is part of a trunk .
any of the three veins including the common ,  external and internal iliac veins .
a layer of cuboidal epithelial cells bounded anteriorly by the capsule of the lens and posteriorly by the lens cortex .
arteries which arise from the abdominal aorta and distribute to most of the intestines .
a vein that returns blood from the intestines .
an epithelium that is part of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelium that is part of a lens vesicle .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
an endothelium that is part of a right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a left lung .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lens vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
mesenchyme that is part of a optic eminence .
a venous system that is part of a hindbrain .
a mesoderm that has the potential to develop into a pronephros .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pectoral appendage bud mesenchyme .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pelvic appendage bud mesenchyme .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb or paired fin [ gilbert , modified ]  .
the outermost layer of a blood vessel ,  composed mainly of fibrous tissue .
a tunica intima that is part of a artery .
an outermost connective tissue covering of an organ ,  vessel ,  or other structure [ wp ]  .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone ,  usually for passage of blood vessels or nerves .
the metanephros develops from the most caudal part of the nephrogenic cord that is itself derived from the intermediate plate mesoderm .
the initial renal anlage that develops from the most rostral part of the nephrogenic cord is termed the pronephros .
a acellular anatomical structure that is the bounding layer of a anatomical structure .
an acellular membrane that is part of the epithelium ,  lies adjacent to the epithelial cells ,  and is the fusion of the the basal lamina and the reticular lamina .
nephric tubules  ( nephrons )  form embryonically along the nephric ridge .
any portion of the aorta including the ascending and descending aorta ,  and aortic arch or a portion of the aortic orifice of the left ventricle .
the dorsal aorta is a blood vessel in a single - pass circulatory system that carries oxygenated blood from the gills to the rest of the body .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
cell condensation that is an aggregation of mesenchymal cells that are committed to differentiate into chondroblasts and chondrocytes .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme whose cells are committed to become chondroblasts .
the paired ventral prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo ;  the two prominences unite ventrally and fuse to form the mandible and lower lip
an indentation of the olfactory placode which ends when the pits hollows out to form the nasopharynx [ go ]  .
anatomical cluster that is located in the posterior region of the cranium and forms the margin of the foramen magnum and occipital condyles .
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of cranial skeleton ,  set of all vertebrae ,  set of all ribs and sternum [ fma ,  modified ]  .
anteriosuperior ,  smooth - walled portion of the cavity of the right ventricle ,  beginning at the supraventricular crest and terminating in the pulmonary trunk
anterosuperior fibrous portion of the left ventricle that connects to the ascending aorta .
the laminar structure of the heart
any of the arteries or veins that supply blood to the heart or return blood from the heart muscles to the circulation
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
the mesonephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the mesonephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
the spiral septum that separates the truncus arteriosus into a ventral pulmonary trunk and the dorsal aorta [ mp ]  .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
the membrane that covers the embryonic cloaca ,  formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm ;  the urorectal septum joins the cloacal membrane and divides it into an anal membrane and a urogenital membrane ;  the point where the urorectal septum intersects the cloacal membrane is the future site of the perineal body ;  proliferation of mesoderm and ectoderm around the cloacal membrane produces primordial tissues of the external genitalia in both sexes: the genital tubercle ,  genital folds ,  and genital swellings .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the foregut and midgut .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
the notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down .
a midline cellular cord formed from the migration of mesenchymal cells from the primitive knot
the pair of depressions of thickened otic placode epithelium ,  that further develops into the otic vesicles
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
a segment of the eyeball that is filled with refractive media
body substance in a liquid or semi - solid state in the eyeball which serves to refract light .
liquid components of living organisms .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a brainstem .
an artery that connects two larger arteries .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a zone of skin .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a female reproductive gland .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
a vasculature that is part of a kidney .
a tube in the kidney that collect and transport urine .
a tube that is part of a excretory system .
the pharynx is the part of the digestive system immediately posterior to the mouth [ go ]  .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
a urethral meatus that is part of a female urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a left ventricle of a heart .
a myocardium that is part of a right ventricle of a heart .
the pectinate line  ( anocutaneous line ,  dentate line ,  anorectal junction )  is a line which divides the upper 2 / 3rds and lower 1 / 3rd of the anal canal .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into endoderm .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into mesoderm .
a muscle layer that is part of a fallopian tube .
a region of muscle in many organs in the vertebrate body ,  adjacent to the submucosa membrane .
a valve that is part of a vein .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a epithelium .
the edge of the cornea where it joins the sclera ;  the limbus is a common site for the occurrence of corneal epithelial neoplasm
an epithelium that is composed primarily of secretory cells .
structural framework that provides support to the nasal sacs and ducts .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a trachea .
a furrow or an incomplete tube .
a muscular coat that is part of a ureter .
the distalmost portion of the digestive tract ,  derived from the hindgut ,  and terminating with the anus .
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular prominence .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a digestive tract .
an epithelium that is part of a lip .
an epithelium characterised by its most superficial layer consisting of squamous epithelial cells .
multilaminar epithelium which consists of more than one layer of squamous cells only one layer of which is in contact with a basement membrane .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a stomach .
the squamous epithelium of the cervical portio is similar to that of the vagina ,  except that it is generally smooth and lacks rete pegs .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a vagina .
a glandular epithelium that lines the stomach .
any gland that is part of the digestive system .
simple columnar epithelium that constitutes the secretory part of a gland .
stomach mucosa that is lined with glandular epithelium and part of a stomach glandular region .
simple columnar epithelium made up of cells specialized to serve as sensory cells for the reception of external stimuli ,  as the sensory cells of the cochlea ,  vestibule ,  nasal mucosa ,  and tongue .
the epithelial cell layer containing the sensory hair cells and their associated sensory nerve terminals
an epithelium that is part of a uterus .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
a capillary that is part of the coronary system .
a two dimensional anatomical structure that is the boundary between an anatomical structure and an anatomical substance ,  an anatomical space or the organism's environment .
the splanchnic mesoderm in the cardiogenic region where the heart develops ;  it gives rise to endocardial heart tubes that fuse to form the primordial cardiac tube ,  the heart primordium [ web ]  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
a multicellular organism that is at the juvenile stage .
a multicellular organism that existence_ends_with a post - juvenile adult stage and existence_starts_with a post - juvenile adult stage .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the hyoid arch .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  keeps up the circulation of the blood or analogs [ go , modified ]  .
ganglion which is located in the trunk .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a midgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a hindgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a anal canal .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a colon .
a serous membrane that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
a muscle layer that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
the structure from the trachea ,  bronchi ,  and bronchioles that forms the airways that supply air to the lungs .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a trunk neural crest .
a tunica media that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a vein .
a tunica intima that is part of a vein .
a tunica media that is part of a vein .
gray matter of the central nervous system which is a collection of clustered nuclei .
any of the nuclei that comprise the superior olivary complex  ( superior olive )  .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a trachea .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of an appendage .
skeletal subdivision consisting of the anterior appendicular limb skeleton ,  excluding the pectoral girdle .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic appendage region .
the rhombencephalon  ( or hindbrain )  is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a endocardium .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a presomitic mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a neural plate .
the part of the blastula that has the potential to develop into a paraxial mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a pronephric mesoderm .
a blood vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a vasculature that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a vasculature that is part of a chordate pharynx .
a vasculature that is part of a limb / fin .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer of an animal ,  it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material  ( e .g .
portion of the dermis characterized by a well - arranged ,  plywood - like ,  collagenous network .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a paired limb or fin .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pelvic appendage .
a nucleus of brain that spans a midbrain tegmentum .
the space within an epithelial sphere .
an epithelial tube that is open at one end only .
an epithelial tube open at both ends that allows fluid flow .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
a ciliated columnar epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
a cuboidal epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
epithelium bearing vibratile cilia on the free surface .
a thin ,  loose vascular connective tissue that makes up the membranes surrounding joints and the sheaths protecting tendons  ( particularly flexor tendons in the hands and feet )  where they pass over bony prominences .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a synovial joint .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
a neural nucleus that is part of a medulla oblongata .
the sensory trigeminal nerve nuclei are the largest of the cranial nerve nuclei ,  and extend through the whole of the midbrain ,  pons and medulla .
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
region of the embryo into the area in which the kidney rudiment will develop .
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
the minute opening of a taste bud on the surface of the oral mucosa through which the gustatory hairs of the specialised neuroepithelial gustatory cells project .
a bone that is part of a reproductive organ .
a gland that is part of a epidermis .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
any fluid produced by a serous gland .
anatomical system that consists of all blood and lymph vessels .
adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
an organism subdivision that encompasses the region containing the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
a bone that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a bone that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
a bone element or fused bone that is part of pelvic girdle .
a subdivision of a limb or fin skeleton consisting of bones which connects the upper limb or fin to the axial skeleton on each side .
skeletal subdivision consisting of a set of bones linking the axial series to the hindlimb zeugopodium and offering anchoring areas for hindlimb and caudal musculature .
bone element that arises as a result of intramembranous ossification .
skeletal element that is composed of cartilage tissue and may be permanent or transient .
connective tissue ,  which consists of fibroblasts ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a regular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
connective tissue that is dominated by collagen fibres organized into a definitive pattern  ( e .g . ,  parallel to one another )  ,  with comparatively fewer cells  ( mostly fibroblasts )  .
a bone that is part of a craniocervical region .
a skeletal joint that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a anatomical surface that is part of a cartilage element .
a bone that is hollow or contains many air cells ,  such as the mastoid process of the temporal bone [ tmd ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the pelvis .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
an endothelium that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of an nose .
a transient embryonic complex that comprises the pharyngeal arches ,  bulges of tissues of mesoderm and neural crest derivation through which pass nerves and pharyngeal arch arteries .
a head that is part of a embryo .
a brain that develops_from a neural tube .
the smooth muscle layer of the stomach wall that functions to churn and mix food and gastric secretions as well as to move food along the digestive tract to the intestines
any skeletal muscle organ in the hypodermis  /  superficial fascia
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all pulmonary arteries and all pulmonary veins .
subdivision of endoskeleton derived from pharyngeal arches
a pharyngeal arch that is posterior to the hyoid arch .
skeletal element that forms superficially in the organism ,  usually in association with the ectoderm [ vsao ]  .
bone element that is adjacent to the notochord .
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
any portion of tissue that surrounds a urethra .
an artery that supplies blood to the urinary bladder .
vein that drains left lung and returns blood to the heart .
vein that drains right lung and returns blood to the heart .
an organism containing a developing embryo ,  fetus ,  or unborn offspring within the body .
the uterus in pregnancy
a gonad prior to differentiating into a definitive testis or ovary .
rostralmost epibranchial placode .associated with 1st branchial cleft .
epibranchial placode between geniculate and nodose .
cranial ganglion which develops from an epibranchial placode .
a vein that is part of a craniocervical region .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
a nephric duct is a tube that drains a primitive kidney [ go ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a otic placode .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
an endoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
mesenchyme that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a portion of mesenchymal tissue associated with an individual pharyngeal arch .
an epithelium that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
anatomical region that surrounds the otic vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindgut .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trachea .
an endoderm that is part of a anal region .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a submucosa that is part of a intestine .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future spinal cord .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future medulla oblongata .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future metencephalon .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future myelencephalon .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch mandibular component .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing left lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing right lung .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive midbrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive hindbrain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a midbrain .
bilateral mesenchymal mesoderm parallel and immediately adjacent to the neural tube / notochord ;  it generates a subset of extra - ocular ,  and other head ,  muscles .
a basement membrane that is part of a bronchus .
a basement membrane that is part of a trachea .
nucleus located in the midbrain .
nucleus located within the hindbrain .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a embryonic cloaca .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a rectum .
any endocardium that is part of the right ventricle of the heart .
any endocardium that is part of the left ventricle of the heart .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a stomodeum .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing cardiac structures
a ganglion that is part of a abdominal segment of trunk .
the many - lobed berry cluster of cells that is the terminous of a gland where the secretion is produced is acinar in form .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a primitive urogenital sinus .
mesenchyme that surrounds primitive urogenital sinus .
an epithelium that is part of a embryonic cloaca .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
a division of the stomach .
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the majority of the mesodermal component of the right ventricle ,  arterial pole  ( outflow tract )  and venous pole  ( inflow tract )  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing face .
an anatomical wall that is part of a ureter .
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the epithelium of the ureter
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_with a post - embryonic stage .
cranial ectodermal placode with potential to develop into a component of the nervous system ,  such as nerves or ganglia .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a urinary bladder .
the junction between the ureter and the renal pelvis of the kidney
the valve - like structure found at the site of entry of the ureter into the urinary bladder ,  normally displays an oblique angulation through the detrusor to avoid reflux of urine up the ureters and the kidney
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
a small cluster of cells of various types which form a discrete structure ,  largely delimited by a morphological boundary and whose components work together to make the whole structure capable of a specific function .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
an organ of the digestive tract that is capable of retaining and storing food
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
the sum total of mesenchymal tissue in the pharyngeal arch region .
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
an epithelium consisting of cuboidal epithelial cells .
mesenchyme that has the potential to develop into a dermis .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a metencephalon .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a myelencephalon .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a facial nucleus .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a superior salivatory nucleus .
any portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of the conducting system of heart or the purkinje fibers .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and that release hormones in response to neural stimuli
a mucous secretion that is produced by glands in the epidermis .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a blood vessel .
an urethral gland that is part of a female urethra .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
the paired arterial structures of the embryo that supplies each developing somite via efferent segmental arteries ;  the dorsal aortae articulate with the umbilical arteries ,  which return mixed blood to the villi of the chorion for reoxygenation
one of the laterally paired arteries that supply the gonads .
an anatomical boundary that corresponds to some physical discontinuity .
apparatus located between the lungs and the buccal cavity .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a rhombencephalon neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
portion of neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain .
an endothelium that is part of a sclera .
mesenchyme surrounding the developing optic cup which develops into the sclera .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesizes but does not accumulate keratin .
developing anatomical structure that develops into the eyeball and associated structures .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that is part of a orbital region .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb / fin bud .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes indirect development and includes elements that develop as a replacement or substitution of other elements or tissues .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes direct development and includes elements that either develop in association with the basement membrane of the ectoderm or are homologous with such elements ;  includes dermatocranium ,  components of the appendicular skeleton ,  teeth and tooth - like elements of the oropharynx ,  and integumentary elements .
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
mesenchyme that develops_from a somatopleure .
mesenchyme that develops_from a splanchnopleure .
an organ cavity that is part of a urethra .
the integrated unit  ( of the eye )  that consists of the conjunctiva ,  the corneal surface ,  and the ocular mucosal adnexa including the lid margins and the meibomian gland openings ,  the lacrimal glands and the lacrimal drainage system ,  all which are critical to maintain ocular surface integrity and provide protection from external antigens and pathogenic microorganisms .
an orifice that is part of a lower urinary tract .
the ciliary processes are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid ,  i .e .
a bone that is shaped as a broad flat plate and composed of two thin layers of compact tissue enclosing between them a variable quantity of cancellous tissue ,  which is the location of red bone marrow .
a simple columnar epithelium that looks stratified but is not ,  because its cells are arranged with their nuclei at different levels .
epithelium composed of a single layer of cells ,  appearing as layered because the column - shaped cells vary in height so the nuclei are at different levels .
skeletal element that forms as a replacement or substitution of another element or tissue .
a vessel of the microcirculature ,  lying between the arterioles and venules ;  includes capillaries  ( blood and lymphatic )  ,  metarterioles and arteriovenous anastomoses .
an organ cavity that surrounded_by a bone .
an organism subdivision that includes both an appendage and its associated girdle region .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pectoral appendicular skeleton and the pectoral girdle .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pelvic appendicular skeleton and the pelvic girdle .
the subdivision of the skeleton of either the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
a bone that is part of an appendage girdle complex  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a pectoral complex .
a bone that is part of a pelvic complex .
muscles of the pelvic girdle ,  hindlimb or pelvic fin .
a muscle of a pectoral girdle ,  pectoral fin or anterior limb .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements  ( i .e .
any muscle organ that is part of either the head or the neck .
a cartilage element that is part of a splanchnocranium .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a right pelvic girdle region .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a left pelvic girdle region .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
a synovial joint that is part of a pelvic girdle region .
a synovial joint that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
a skeletal joint that connects a laryngeal cartilage .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the postcranial axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the kidney and the ureters .
gland of the lamina epithelialis mucosae which perforate the lamina muscularis ,  with their adenomeres located in the submucosal connective tissue .
subdivision of skull that consists of the facial bones .
the skull can be divided into two: the neurocranium and the facial skeleton
a bone that is part of a neurocranium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle layer that is part of a large intestine .
a multi cell part structure that is part of a central nervous system .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
synovial sac which surrounds parts of one or more tendons .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the appendicular skeleton plus associated joints .
the part of the trunk that is in the dorsum [ cjm ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the uterine tube .
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
a tube lumen that is part of a mesonephric duct .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb or fin .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
a subdivision of the head that corresponds to the jaw skeleton ,  containing both soft tissue ,  skeleton and teeth  ( when present )  .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
an anatomical space that is part of a bone of lower jaw .
a cranial nerve nucleus that is associated with a vagus nerve .
a neural nucleus that is part of the spinal cord .
a nerve that is part of a head .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense connective tissue is mainly composed of collagen type i .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
an acinus that is part of a exocrine gland .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of aorta tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of pulmonary tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of bone tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of tendon tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
front  ( ventral )  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
a organ cavity that is part of a vagina .
epimysium is a layer of connective tissue which ensheaths the entire muscle .
a region of the stomach that is lined with glandular epithelium .
the aggregate of the coelemic cavity lumen plus the membranes that line the lumen .
the cavity within a myotome
bone that forms as a replacement of another structural tissue .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a bronchus .
anatomical system that consists of the integumental system plus all mucosae and submucosae .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a stomach .
a zone of skin that is part of a craniocervical region .
network of tubes that carries blood through the distensible musculomembranous organ that serves to collect and store urine excreted by the kidneys [ mp ] 
external opening or orifice of the urethra through which urine and seminal fluid  ( in males only )  leave the body ;  in males the meatus presents as a vertical slit normally positioned at the tip of glans penis ;  in females the meatus is located between the clitoris and the vagina in the vulvular vestibule of the female genitalia [ mp ]  .
the usually crescent - shaped opening of the urinary bladder into the urethra ,  placed at the anteroinferior angle  ( apex )  of the urinary bladder trigone
mucus - secreting glands in the mucosa of the uterine cervix
lining of the head of the uterus  ( cervix )  ;  contains large branched glands ;  does not undergo sloughing .
the part of the cervix uteri that protrudes into the vagina and is lined with stratified squamous epithelium .
a glandular epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix .
a epithelium that is part of a ectocervix .
the glandular epithelium that lines the endocervix .
region of cervical epithelium where columnar epithelium of endocervic and the stratified non - keratinising squamous epithelium of the ectocervic meet
an artery that originates from the abdominal aorta
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
the nasal glands are the seromucous glands in the respiratory region of the nasal mucous membrane .
one of the pair of mesenchymal swellings  ( folds )  located on either side of the cloacal membrane during the indifferent stage of embryonic development ;  cranial to the cloacal membrane the folds unite to form the genital tubercle ;  caudally the folds are subdivided into urogenital folds anteriorly and anal folds posteriorly
a mucosa that is part of a urethra .
one of five swellings formed during the development of the face
the median slit located inferior and posterior to the external urethral orifice in the female ;  the exit for menstrual flow and birth and the entrance for the penis during sexual intercourse ;  the size and appearance of the vaginal orifice varies inversely with that of the hymen  ( g . membrane )  ,  a thin fold of mucous membrane that surrounds the vaginal orifice
an artery of the neck
the deep cervical artery  ( profunda cervicalis )  is an artery of the neck .
a bone element that is part of a jaw region .
a muscle layer that is part of an intestine .
a muscular coat that is part of a urinary bladder .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system venous blood vessel .
the sclera and cornea form the fibrous tunic of the bulb of the eye ;  the sclera is opaque ,  and constitutes the posterior five - sixths of the tunic ;  the cornea is transparent ,  and forms the anterior sixth .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a cloaca .
the opening of the cloacal chamber to the outside of the organism .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a terminal part of digestive tract .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pectoral complex  -  i .e .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic complex  -  i .e .
a gland that is part of a cloaca .
a mucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a cloaca .
a submucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a cloaca .
a muscular coat that is part of a colon .
a muscular coat that is part of a anal canal .
a serous membrane that is part of a fallopian tube .
a vein that is part of a abdomen .
a vein that drains a lip .
any vein within the general circulation that transports blood back to the right atrium of the heart .
a gland that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
the secretory unit of a serous gland .
the precursor of the urethra
anatomical cavity that is the lumen of the skull and contains the brain .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the space that surrounds an organism .
a section through the tube or network of tubes that connects the ovaries to the outside of the body .
the anatomical space that is enclosed by a stomach .
a anatomical cavity that is part of a ear vesicle .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone of the skull .
an anatomical space which is the lumen of some anatomical conduit and connects two or more spaces together [ fma , modified ]  .
vascular endothelium found in blood vessels of the blood - brain - barrier .
vascular endothelium found in colon blood vessels .
musculature of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the primary axis ,  typically the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
a tubular passage that extends from the primitive pit into the head process during the early stages of embryonic development in mammals .
fluid contained within the notochordal canal
a organ component layer that is part of a integumental system .
a blood that is part of a artery .
a blood that is part of a vein .
a blood that is part of a capillary .
one of two openings in the uterine cervix .
opening of uterine cervix into the vagina .
the cavity formed by the walls of the cervix .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
great vessels is a term used to refer collectively to the large vessels that bring blood to and from the heart .
a organ cavity that is part of a uterus .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any member of the network of tubes that return blood from the renal tissues to the systemic circulation .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all skeletal elements in the thoracic region of the trunk .
a unilaminar epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a anal region .
the secretory unit of a mucous gland .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive midbrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive spinal cord
any muscle organ that is part of a cloaca .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic complex .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral complex .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral appendage  ( forelimb or pectoral fin )  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic appendage  ( hindlimb or pelvic fin )  .
a muscle organ that consists of skeletal muscle tissue ensheathed in epimysium ,  that develops from myotome and that is innervated by some somatic motor neuron .
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
a gland that is typically found in or near the orbital region ,  in or around either the medial or lateral canthi ,  and is typically associated with secretions onto the eyeball or associated ducts .
an eye consisting of multiple light - sensing organs
a blood vessel that is part of a endometrium .
a region of somite adjacent to presomitic mesoderm .
epithelium located in the intersomitic region .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  contributes to the circulation of lymph ,  blood or analogs .
a basement membrane of epithelium that is part of a respiratory system .
a mesenchyme that is part of a urethra .
a valve that is part of a ureter .
a epithelium that is part of a anal canal .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
any anatomical conduit which is part of the upper respiratory tract
an anatomical chamber that is part of the olfactory apparatus ,  consisting of cavity walls  ( nasal epithelium and mucosal layers )  and the space bounded anteriorly by the nares and posteriorly by the choanae ,  when these structures are present .
a epithelium that is part of a ear .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a epithelium that is part of a foregut .
a capillary that is part of a lung .
is the sensory system for the sense of hearing .
luminal space of the right ventricle of the heart .
luminal space of the left ventricle of the heart .
a epithelium that is part of a female urethra .
the external part of the developing pharynx that is made of ectoderm .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is part of gray matter .
mucus produced in the respiratory tract .
any mucus produced by a mucosae of the respiratory system .
an roughly circular indentation in a surface .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
epithelium lining the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
any muscle tissue of the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
a viscus that is part of a abdomen .
a muscle layer that is part of the rectum
any portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of the rectum
a renal pelvis that is part of a left ureter .
a renal pelvis that is part of a right ureter .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower lip .
a boundary delimiting a rhombomere .
any portion of submucosa that lines the digestive tract .
any organ component layer that consists of muscle tissue .
a muscular coat that is part of a digestive tract .
foramen that allows the passge of the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cranial nerve ix )  .
a z - shaped canal running through the temporal bone from the internal acoustic meatus to the stylomastoid foramen .
the anatomical space within the intestine .
muscle innervated by the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
the neck region of a bone organ .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
a membranous sac in animals that serves as the receptacle of a liquid or contains gas .
adipose tissue which is located throughout skeletal muscle and is responsible for the marbling seen in certain cuts of beef .
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
the part of the eye that consists of both the retina and the optic choroid
an exocrine gland that is part of a integumental system .
the spinal accessory nucleus lies within the cervical spinal cord  ( c1 - c5 )  in the ventral horn .
a blood vessel that supplies or drains an ear .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a reproductive gland .
single layer of a laminar structure ,  identified by different density ,  arrangement or size of cells and processes arranged in flattened layers or lamina [ cumbo ]  .
serous membrane layer that is adjacent to and lines an organ .
serous membrane layer that lines to a body cavity .
the layer of endometrial epithelium adjacent to the uterine cavity .
a specific region of the foregut into the area in which the lung will develop .
an embryonic or larval epithelium that is committed to form part of the nervous system .
an epithelium that is undergoing proliferation to provide large numbers of neuronal cells .
a neuroepithelium some of whose cells are undergoing terminal differentiation to become neuronal cells .
any of the cranial nerves ,  or their central nervous system analogs  ( the optic tract ,  the epiphyseal tract )  .
a taste bud that is located external to the digestive tube ,  on the head or body ,  as found in species such as goldfish .
a taste bud that is located on a lip .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the head .
a taste bud that is located in the pharynx .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the trunk .
the autonomic nerve is a small nerve which carries postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons from the zygomaticotemporal nerve ;  a branch of the maxillary nerve ,  to the lacrimal nerve ;  a branch of the ophthalmic nerve .
any substance in the body or expelled from the body that is in a gaseous state .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system that is composed primarily of air .
the area of axial mesoderm that develops into the prechordal plate
an multicellular anatomical structure that has subparts of multiple organs as a part .
a cluster of cells ,  largely surrounded by a morphological boundary .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
any organ component layer that consists of smooth muscle tissue .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any material entity that is located in the digestive tract .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of the whole body .
the organ of hearing located on the right side of the head .
the organ of hearing located on the left side of the head [ ncit , modified ]  .
the part of the circulatory system that lies within the subcutaneous tissue layers close to the surface of the skin .
any of the veins carrying deoxygenated blood from the subcutaneous tissue layers .
the part of the circulatory system that lies deep beneath the subcutaneous tissue layers away from the surface of the skin .
a blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood far beneath the skin usually accompanying an artery .
any chamber of the left side of the heart
any chamber of the right side of the heart
the parts of the orbital region that are outside of the the eyeball ,  including the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva
any nerve that innervates the larynx .
the primordial mouth region of the developing head .
a muscle layer that is part of the sigmoid colon
the sum of epicardial and paracardial fat deposits .
any fat deposit surrounding a visceral organ .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdominal segment of the trunk ,  which encompasses the abdomen proper plus pelvic cavity .
an region of the mesoderm that includes anterior lateral mesoderm of the first heart field plus contiguous pharyngeal mesoderm that gives rise to second - heart - field - derived regions of the heart and branchiomeric muscles .
an anatomical junction that is between the sigmoid colon and rectum .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
a bodily fluid that is located in the coelom .
any gland that is part os the respiratory system .
a notochord that has persisted beyond the embryonic stage .
fluid that lines the vaginal walls that consists of multiple secretions that collect in the vagina from different glands .
a transudate found in the serous sac .
the zygomaticotemporal nerve or zygomaticotemporal branch  ( temporal branch )  is derived from the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of aorta .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of pulmonary trunk .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the lateral and septal walls of right ventricle .
a mucosa that is part of a lip region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper tract of the renal system .
a zone of skin that is part of the face .
cartilage which is part of the axial skeleton .
non neural ectoderm that surrounds the presumptive neural plate and gives rise to neurogenic placodes .
structures of the dermis ,  epidermis ,  glands and pigment cells recognizable on the external surfaces of the integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the external head integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the body integument .
blood vessels in respiratory skin .
an anatomical surface that is part of a bone
a unit which is a standard measure of the distance between two points .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of matter / energy of a physical object .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
a unit which is a standard measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles in a sample of matter .
a unit which is a standardised quantity of an element or compound with uniform composition .
a unit which represents a standard measurement of how much of a given substance there is mixed with another substance .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of space occupied by any substance ,  whether solid ,  liquid ,  or gas .
a unit which is a standard measure of the number of repetitive actions in a particular time .
a unit which is a standard measure of the volume of fluid which passes through a given surface per unit time  .
a unit which represents a standard measurement occurrence of a process per unit time .
a vaccine is a processed material with the function that when administered ,  it prevents or ameliorates a disorder in a target organism by inducing or modifying adaptive immune responses specific to the antigens in the vaccine .
a bacterial vaccine that prevents against escherichia coli infection .
a bacterial vaccine that prevents neisseria meningitidis infection .
a mycobacterium vaccine that protects against mycobacterium tuberculosis .
a vaccine adjuvant that is formed as a mineral salt .
an aluminum vaccine adjuvant that contains aluminum hydroxide .
an aluminum vaccine adjuvant that is aluminum phosphate .
a mineral salt vaccine adjuvant composed of calcium phosphate .
an emulsion vaccine adjuvant that consists of a water - in - oil emulsion of aqueous antigen in paraffin  ( mineral )  oil of low specific gravity and low viscosity .
is a freund's emulsfied oil adjuvant that contains inactivated and dried mycobacteria ,  usually mycobacterium tuberculosis  ( the pathogenic agent of tuberculosis )  .
a freud's adjuvant that does not contain the mycobacterial components .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant consisting of cholera toxin  ( ct )  from vibrio cholerae .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant that is the p40 particulate fraction isolated from corynebacterium .
an adjuvant role that inheres in a vaccine component which is added as part of a vaccine and induces enhanced adaptive immune response to the vaccine antigen .
a vaccine that targets against a bacterial disease .
a processed material that is output of the vaccine preparation and part of a vaccine .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant made from bacterial lipopolysaccharide  ( lps )  of gram - negative bacteria .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant formulated to correspond to a component found in a water - soluble extract of cell walls of mycobacteria used in complete freund's adjuvant  ( cfa )  .
an emulsion vaccine adjuvant that contains an organic polymer with some antigenic epitopes which might be shared with other organic polymers acting as immunostimulators .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is an emulsifier called arlacel a .
a microbial derivitive vaccine adjuvant that contains components from killed bordetella pertussis .
vaccine function is a function that inheres in a vaccine that induces protective immune response against a disease .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is pcpp salt .
a vaccine adjuvant that contains particles made up of concentric lipid membranes containing phospholipids and other lipids in a bilayer configuration separated by aqueous compartments .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant that is derived from e . coli heat labile toxin lt .
protective antigen is an antigen that stimulates protective immunity when used in vivo .
immunization is a processual entity that primes or modifies an adaptivie immune response to some antigens .
active immunization is an immunization process that entails the introduction of a foreign molecule into the body ,  which causes the body itself to generate adaptive immunity against the target .
artificial active immunization is an active immunization that occurs when a person or animal is vaccinated with a specific vaccine .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant ,  adamantylamide dipeptide  ( addp )  is the desmuramyl analog of mdp .
a vaccine component that is chemical substance added to vaccine and enhance and direct immune response to protective antigen .
immunization objective is the specification of an objective to achieve immunization .
vaccine preparation is a manufacturing process to produce a vaccine .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against mycobacterium bacterial infection .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against yersinia bacterial infection .
a vaccine that targets against a viral disease .
an e . coli vaccine that uses subunit antigen type .
a bacteria vaccine that prevents against yersinia pestis infection that causes plague .
a streptococcal vaccine that is used against s . pneumoniae infection ,  which causes pneumococcal diseases .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with pseudorabies virus .
a particulate antigen delivery system ,  iscom is a vaccine adjuvant that consists of an assembly of antigens in multimeric form and presents an antigen to induce specific immunologic responses .
a bacterial vaccine that prevents streptococcal infections .
a y . pestis subunit vaccine that uses recombinant y . pestis v antigen .
a mineral salt vaccine adjuvant that is composed of aluminum salt .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes il - 12 .
an e . coli subunit vaccine that uses e . coli fimh adhesin protein as teh antigen ,  and uses the complete freund's adjuvant  ( cfa )  in the first vaccination and the incomplete freund's adjuvant  ( ifa )  in the boost vaccination .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant compsed of cpg dna .
ribi vaccine adjuvant is an emulsion vaccine adjuvant that is a stable oil - in - water emulsion .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant named rc529 that is a lipid a mimetic .
an aluminum vaccine adjuvant that is aluminum potassium sulfate  ( alk ( so4 ) 2 )  .
an aluminum hydroxide vaccine adjuvant that is a gel that is made by precipitation of aluminum hydroxide al ( oh ) 3 under alkaline conditions .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant made of the b subunit of the cholera toxin from vibrio cholerae .
an aqueous formula of the synthetic vaccine adjuvant rc529 .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant derived from the lipopolysaccharide  ( lps )  of salmonella minnesota r595 .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant that is a mutant form of lt containing a ser - lys substitution in position 63 which has been shown to be totally devoid of toxicity stable to protease treatment and able to act as mucosal adjuvant .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant derived from heat - killed corynebacterium parvum .
titermax gold is an emulsion vaccine adjuvant which is a water - in - oil adjuvant with crl - 8300  ( a block copolymer )  ,  squalene ,  and sorbitan monooleate .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is dimethyldioctadecylammonium bromide  ( dda )  ,  a lipophilic quaternary ammonium salt known as a good adjuvant when co - administered systemically or nasally with an antigen .
a liposome - based vaccine adjuvant that have a positive surface charge .
a combination vaccine adjuvant comprised of monophosphoryl lipid a  ( mpl )  ,  qs21 and an oil in water emulsion .
vsa - 3 is an emulsion vaccine adjuvant which is an emulsion plus dda .
a tensoactive compound vaccine adjuvant that is derived from saponin ,  a compound that is an immunostimulator found in the plant p . senega .
a montanide vaccine adjuvant that is formulated as water - in - oil emulsions and induces high antibody titers in several animal species .
a montanide vaccine adjuvant that is a mineral oil adjuvant .
a montanide vaccine adjuvant that is a vaccine adjuvant composed of a light mineral oil and a surfactant system designed to make a water - in - oil emulsion .
an emulsion vaccine adjuvant developed by montanide  ( http: /  / www .montanide .com /  )  .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant with the tradename polygen .
a role of host that contains vaccine .
a suspension of 1 - 2μm ovoids of immune stimulant gamma inulin  ( g - in )  in which alum is embedded as a carrier for protein or other anionic antigens .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is bay r1005  ( n -  ( 2 - deoxy - 2 - l - leucylamino β - d - glucopyranosyl )  - n - octadecyldodecanoylamide hydroacetate  )  .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is n ,  n - dioctadecyl - n′ ,  n′ - bis (  2 - hydroxyethyl )  propanediamine  ( avridine )  .
a calcium phosphate vaccine adjuvant that is a gel prepared by precipitating soluable calcium and phosphate salts .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant composed of the cta1 - dd fusion protein .
gamma inulin is a carbohydrate adjuvant that is a highly specific activator of the alternative pathway of complement in vitro and in vivo ,  and is composed of linear  ( unbranched )  b - d -  ( 2 - 1 )  polyfructofuranosyl - a - d - glucose .
gerbu adjuvant is a combination vaccine adjuvant that is comprised of a mixture of gmdp ,  dda ,  and zinc l - proline salt complex  ( znpro8 )  .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes gm - csf .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant containing gmdp ,  a higly effective primary adjuvant .
an ifn - gamma vaccine adjuvant that is composed of recombinant hifn - gamma .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes il - 1b .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes il - 2 .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes il - 7 .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant loxoribine is a guanosine analog derivatized at position n7 and c8 ,  and activates tlr - 7 .
pmid: 20488726
mtp - pe liposomes are a liposome - based vaccine adjuvant that consists of liposomes containing  the synthetic lipophilic analog of muramyl dipeptide ,  muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine  ( mtp - pe )  .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant made of murametide that has adjuvant activity similar to mdp .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant called murapalmitine .
a synthetic adjuvant that is an mdp analog called d - murapalmitine .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is composed of neuraminidase - galactose oxidase  ( nago )  a mixture of mixture of the two enzymes - neuraminidase and galactose oxidase .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant consisting of multi - lamellar vesicles comprising a mixture of non - ionic surfactant  ( e .g . ,  1 - monopalmitoyl - rac - glycerol )  ,  cholesterol and dicetyl phosphate used as a primary vaccine adjuvant for entrapped antigen .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant made from the emulsion polymerization of methyl methacrylate .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant synthesized from stable protein phospholipid - calcium precipitates .
a tensoactive compound vaccine adjuvant that is composed of extracts from the bark of the quillaja saponaria molina tree .
an aluminum vaccine adjuvant that is a synthetic oxyhydroxide of aluminum  ( aluminum hydroxide )  prepared by acid - base precipitation .
an aluminum hydroxide vaccine adjuvant that is a low visosity aluminum hydroxide gel .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that contains the 163 - 171 peptide of il - 1β .
specon is an emulsion vaccine adjuvant that is a water - in - oil emulsion that is used as an adjuvant and has immunostimulating properties similar to freund's complete adjuvant  ( fca )  .
spt is an emulsion vaccine adjuvant that is an emulsion of squalane  ( 5% )  ,  tween 80 (  0 .2% )  ,  pluronic l121 (  1 .25% )  ,  phosphate - buffered saline ph 7 .4 ,  and antigen .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant stearyl tyrosine is considered an "organic equivelant" of aluminum hydroxide .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant called theramide that is composed of n - acetylglucosaminyl - n - acetylinuramyl - l - ala - d - isoglu - l - ala - dipalmitoxy propylamide  ( dtp - dpp )  .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is a copolymer  ( crl1005 )  ,  based on a 12 kda polyoxypropylene  ( pop )  core with 5% poe .
nanoemulsion vaccine adjuvant is an emulsion vaccine adjuvant and is made from non - toxic lipid droplets a few hundred nanometers in diameter and made from surfactants approved for human consumption and common food substances that are 'generally recognized as safe'  ( gras )  by the fda .
as03 is an emusion vaccine adjuvant that contains α - tocopherol and squalene ,  two biodegradable polyprenyls ,  in an oil - in - water emulsion .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant containing e . coli heat - labile toxin .
an aluminum vaccine adjuvant that is a a proprietary aluminum hydroxyphosphate sulfate formulation that is both physically and functionally distinct from traditional aluminum phosphate and aluminum hydroxide adjuvants .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant contiaing imiquimod a imidazoquinoline .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant ,  resiquimod is a chemical analog of imiquimod .
an emulsion vaccine adjuvant containing 2 .5% squalene .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant composed of flagellin from gram - negative bacteria .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant containing poly ( i:c )  ,  a synthetic double stranded analog of rna .
a particulate antigen delivery system that is a vaccine adjuvant comprising cholesterol ,  phospholipid and saponin but without antigen .
a tensoactive compound vaccine adjuvant that is made from highly purified saponins .
a particulate antigen delivery system  that is albumin - heparin microparticles vaccine adjuvant that is prepared from albumin and heparin stabilized by cross - linking reaction with edc .
smithkline beecham adjuvant system 2   ( as - 2 )  is a combination vaccine adjuvant and is based on the combination of monophosphoryl lipid a ( mpl )  ,  qs21  ( a purified fraction of saponin extracted from quillarja saponaria )  ,  and a proprietary oil in water emulsion .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes b7 - 2 .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is a local anaesthetic drug belonging to the amino amide group ,  and is used as a vaccine adjuvant in dna vaccines .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is plga ,  which has been used in the controlled delivery of peptide drugs .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that uses the adjuvant effect of cytokine il - 15 .
immunoliposomes containing antibodies to costimulatory molecules is a liposome - based vaccine adjuvant which is prepared from dehydration - rehydration vesicles  ( drvs )  .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant that is a mutant form of heat - labile escherichia coli enterotoxin  ( lt )  that contains a substitution ala → arg in position 72 of the a subunit .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant containing mpl and squalene .
a microbial derived vaccine adjuvant made of e112k mc ,   a mutated ct created by substituting a single amino acid in the adp - ribosyltransferase active centre ,  glutamate to lysine at position 112 .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant that is derived from cholera toxin .
saf - 1 is a combination vaccine adjuvant that is composed of threonyl - mdp  ( 0 .05 - 1% )  in an emulsion vehicle  [ 5% squalane ,  2 .5% pluronic® l121 ,  0 .2% polysorbate 80 and phosphate buffered saline  ( ph 7 .4 )  ]  .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is threonyl muramyl dipeptide  ( tmdp )  .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant made of virus like particles  ( vlps )  containing the yeast retrotransposon ty which has the amino acids 1 - 381 of the pi protein encoded .
a vaccine adjuvant that serves as a particulate antigen delivery system .
a vaccine aduvant that contains synthetic material .
a vaccine adjuvant that includes tensioactive material .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes ifn - gamma .
the objective that intends to produce vaccine via the vaccine preparation process .
a vaccine that protects against listeria monocytogenes .
a cpg dna vaccine adjuvant that is a short ,  synthetic ,  unmethylated cpg oligodeoxynucleotide  ( cpg odn )  with immunostimulatory activity .
a protein from a bacterium
a protein from a virus
a protein from a parasite
a vaccine that protects against yersinia enterocolitica .
