b is an independent continuant = def .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
an atom of an element that exhibits properties that are between those of metals and nonmetals ,  or that has a mixture of them .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26 .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
chemical element with atomic number 53 .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
any nutrient required in small quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an element whose atom has an incomplete d sub - shell ,  or which can give rise to cations with an incomplete d sub - shell .
a cobalt group element atom that has atomic number 27 .
a chromium group element atom that has atomic number 24 .
chemical element  ( nickel group element atom )  with atomic number 28 .
a metallic element first identified and named from the brilliant indigo  ( latin indicum )  blue line in its flame spectrum .
a metallic element first identified and named from the brilliant green line in its flame spectrum  ( from greek thetaalphalambdalambdaomicronsigma ,  a green shoot )  .
alkaline earth metal atom with atomic number 4 .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
a radioactive metallic element discovered in 1898 by marie sklodowska curie and named after her home country ,  poland  ( latin polonia )  .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a cobalt group element atom of atomic number 45 .
chemical element  ( nickel group element atom )  with atomic number 46 .
a copper group element atom with atomic number 111 .
a zinc group element atom with a symbol cn and atomic number 112 .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
a metallic element predicted as eka - aluminium by mendeleev in 1870 and discovered by paul - emile lecoq de boisbaudran in 1875 .
a role played by a chemical compound which is known to  induce a process of carcinogenesis  by corrupting  normal cellular pathways ,  leading to the acquistion of tumoral capabilities .
a chemical compound ,  or part thereof ,  which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
the biological role played by a material entity when bound by a receptor of the adaptive immune system .
any pharmacological or immunological agent that modifies the effect of other agents such as drugs or vaccines while having few if any direct effects when given by itself .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
any metal which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
the valence shell is the outermost shell of an atom .
a valence electron is an outer shell electron that is associated with an atom ,  and that can participate in the formation of a chemical bond if the outer shell is not closed ;  in a single covalent bond ,  both atoms in the bond contribute one valence electron in order to form a shared pair .
a quality of material that ,  when freshly prepared ,  polished ,  or fractured ,  shows a lustrous appearance ,  and conducts electricity and heat relatively well .
a quality of material that conducts spontaneous nuclear decay .
nihonium is a synthetic chemical element with the symbol nh and atomic number 113 .
an orbit followed by electrons around an atom's nucleus .
an element classied in the iuacp group in the periodic table
part of an electron shell .
a subshell that has a maxium of 10 electrons and is contained in the 3rd shell and higher .
a subshell that has a maxium of 2 electrons and is contained in every shell
a subshell that has a maxium of 18 electrons and is contained in the 5th shell and higher .
a subshell that has a maxium of 22 electrons with 11 atomic orbitals .
a subshell that has a maxium of 14 electrons and is contained in the 4th shell and higher .
a subshell that has a maxium of 6 electrons and is contained in the 2nd shell and higher .
an element atom in group 1 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 2 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 3 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 4 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 5 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 6 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 7 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 8 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 9 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 10 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 11 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
a quality of material that mostly lacks the characteristics of a metal .
an element atom in group 12 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 13 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 14 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 15 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 16 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 17 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an element atom in group 18 of the periodic table according to the iuacp classification
an atom that is classified as a chemical element in a period  ( or row )  in the periodic table .
an element atom in period 1 of the periodic table
an element atom in period 2 of the periodic table
an element atom in period 3 of the periodic table
an element atom in period 4 of the periodic table
an element atom in period 5 of the periodic table
flerovium is a superheavy artificial chemical element with the symbol fl and atomic number 114 .
moscovium is a synthetic chemical element with the symbol mc and atomic number 115 .
an element atom in period 6 of the periodic table
an element atom in period 7 of the periodic table
an element atom in period 8 of the periodic table
livermorium is a synthetic chemical element with the symbol lv and has an atomic number of 116 .
tennessine is a synthetic chemical element with the symbol ts and atomic number 117 .
oganesson is a synthetic chemical element with the symbol og and atomic number 118 .
an atom that has an unstable nucleus and the unstable atomic nucleus loses energy by radiation .
a metal quality of material that is shiny ,  silvery - white ,  somewhat reactive at standard temperature and pressure .
a quality of material that has properties in between ,  or that is a mixture of ,  those of metals and nonmetals .
a metal quality of material that is rare on earth .
a nonmetal quality of material that isodorless ,  colorless ,  monatomic gases with very low chemical reactivity under standard conditions .
a metal quality of material that is shiny ,  soft ,  highly reactive at standard temperature and pressure and readily lose their outermost electron to form cations with charge  + 1 .
