an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
p is a process boundary =def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
material anatomical entity that is a member of an individual species or is a viral or viroid particle .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing ribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  rna is central to the synthesis of proteins .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell in vitro that is or has been maintained or propagated as part of a cell culture .
a cell in vitro that has undergone physical changes as a consequence of a deliberate and specific experimental procedure .
a quantitative or qualitative value which is the result of an act of assessing a morphological or physiological state or property in a single individual or sample or a group of individuals or samples ,  based on direct observation or experimental manipulation .
any measurement related to immunoglobulin ,  any of several classes of proteins produced by plasma cells and lymphocytes which play essential roles in the immune system ,  for example ,  attaching to foreign substances in an effort to destroy them ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any measurement related to immunoglobulins ,  any of several classes of proteins produced by plasma cells and lymphocytes which play essential roles in the immune system ,  for example ,  attaching to foreign substances in an effort to destroy them ,  in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of one or more types of immunoglobulin a  ( iga )  ,  one of the most prevalent of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of one or more types of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  ,  the most abundant class of antibodies found in blood serum and lymph .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of one or more types of immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body .
an intestinal disease characterized by inflammation located_in all parts of digestive tract .
a cancer that is classified based on the organ it starts in .
an autoimmune hypersensitivity disease that is the abnormal functioning of the immune system that causes your immune system to produce antibodies or t cells against cells and / or tissues in the musculoskeletal system .
a gastrointestinal system cancer that is located_in the hepatobiliary system
a gastrointestinal system cancer that is located_in the intestine .
a gastrointestinal system cancer that is located_in the stomach .
an arthritis that has_material_basis_in uric acid crystal deposits located_in joint .
abnormally increased frequency of loose or watery bowel movements .
an autoimmune hypersensitivity disease that involves inflammation or pain in the muscles ,  joints ,  or fibrous tissue .
a disease of cellular proliferation that is malignant and primary ,  characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation ,  local cell invasion and metastasis .
a disease of anatomical entity that occurs in the muscular and / or skeletal system .
an organ system cancer located_in endocrine system that is characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation of the hormone producing glands of the endocrine system .
an endocrine gland cancer located_in the pancreas .
a large intestine cancer that is located_in the colon .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in endocrine glands which secretes a type of hormone directly into the bloodstream to regulate the body .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in the immune system .
a cell type cancer that has_material_basis_in abnormally proliferating cells derives_from epithelial cells .
a gastrointestinal system disease that is located_in the liver and / or biliary tract .
an organ system cancer located_in gastrointestinal tract that is manifested in organs of the gastrointestinal system .
a bone disease that results_in inflammation of the located_in bone .
a hepatobiliary system cancer that is located_in the liver .
a disease is a disposition  ( i )  to undergo pathological processes that  ( ii )  exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
an immune system disease that is an overactive immune response of the body against substances and tissues normally present in the body resulting from an abnormal functioning of the immune system that results in the production of antibodies or t cell directed against the host tissues .
a biliary tract cancer that is located_in the bile duct .
a gastrointestinal system cancer that is located_in the esophagus .
a gastrointestinal system disease that is located_in the intestine .
a stomach cancer that is located_in the stomach .
an intestinal cancer that effects the long ,  tube - like organ that is connected to the small intestine at one end and the anus at the other .
an arthritis that is an autoimmune disease which develops due to an infection located elsewhere in the body .
a musculoskeletal system disease that affects tissues such as skin ,  tendons ,  and cartilage .
a rheumatoid arthritis that involves an autoimmune disease onset in children under 16 which attacks the healthy cells and tissue of located_in joint .
a liver carcinoma that has_material_basis_in undifferentiated hepatocytes .
a liver cancer that has_material_basis_in epithelial cells .
a disease that manifests in a defined anatomical structure .
a bone inflammation disease that results_in inflammation in the joints of the spine and pelvis .
an arthritis that is an autoimmune disease which attacks healthy cells and tissue located_in joint .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located_in the gastrointestinal tract .
a bone inflammation disease that involves a response to irritation or injury ,  characterized by joint pain ,  swelling ,  stiffness located_in joint and / or redness located_in skin over the joint .
a syndrome that occurs in humans with psoriasis who also experience symptoms similar to arthritis .
a lupus erythematosus that is an inflammation of connective tissue marked by skin rashes ,  joint pain and swelling ,  inflammation of the kidneys and inflammation of the tissue surrounding the heart .
a large intestine cancer that is located_in the colon and / or located_in the rectum .
a material entity  ( 1 )  containing at least one scattered molecular aggregate as part that is the bearer of an active ingredient role and  ( 2 )  that is itself the bearer of a clinical drug role
a biome is an ecosystem to which resident ecological communities have evolved adaptations .
a portion of environmental material is a fiat object which forms the medium or part of the medium of an environmental system .
a system which has the disposition to environ one or more material entities .
an environmental system which can sustain and allow the growth of an ecological population .
an environmental system which includes both living and non - living components .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
a phenotypic abnormality .
accumulation of substantial excess body fat .
the presence of chronic diarrhea ,  which is usually taken to mean diarrhea that has persisted for over 4 weeks .
a measurement unit label is as a label that is part of a scalar measurement datum and denotes a unit of measure .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take
a label is a symbol that is part of some other datum and is used to either partially define  the denotation of that datum or to provide a means for identifying the datum as a member of the set of data with the same label
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
a scalar measurement datum is a measurement datum that is composed of two parts ,  numerals and a unit label .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measuring a temporal interval
a part of an extended organism that itself has as part a population of one or more infectious agents and that  ( 1 )  exists as a result of processes initiated by members of the infectious agent population and is  ( 2 )  clinically abnormal in virtue of the presence of this infectious agent population ,  or  ( 3 )  has a disposition to bring clinical abnormality to immunocompetent organisms of the same species as the host  ( the organism corresponding to the extended organism )  through transmission of a member or offspring of a member of the infectious agent population .
interaction is a processual entity that has two or more participants  ( i .e . ,  interactors )  that have an effect upon one another .
enthesitis - related juvenile idiopathic arthritis is a subtype of juvenile idiopathic arthritis that is characterized by both arthritis and inflammation of an enthesitis site  ( the point at which a ligament ,  tendon ,  or joint capsule attaches to the bone )  .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
biological_feature_identification_objective is an objective role carried out by the proposition defining the aim of a study designed to examine or characterize a particular biological feature .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in an assay in which data is generated about the bearer of the evaluant role
a planned process with the objective to produce information about the material entity that is the evaluant ,  by physically examining it or its proxies .
a sample_preparation_for_assay is a protocol_application including material_enrollments and biomaterial_transformations .
a processed material that provides the needed nourishment for microorganisms or cells grown in vitro .
a role inhering in a biological or chemical entity that is intended to be applied in a scientific technique to participate  ( or have molecular components that participate )  in a chemical reaction that facilitates the generation of data about some entity distinct from the bearer ,  or the generation of some specified material output distinct from the bearer .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
a role borne by a material entity that is gained during a specimen collection process and that can be realized by use of the specimen in an investigation
molecular_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize molecular features of a biological system ,  e .g .
a dna extraction is a nucleic acid extraction where the desired output material is dna .
a measurand role borne by a molecular entity or an atom and realized in an analyte assay which achieves the objective to measure the magnitude / concentration / amount of the analyte in the entity bearing evaluant role .
an extract is a material entity which results from an extraction process
an assay that determines gene expression and transcription activity using ribonucleic acids collected from a material entity .
an objective specification to determine a specified type of information about an evaluated entity  ( the material entity bearing evaluant role ) 
measure function is a function that is borne by a processed material  and realized in a process in which information about some entity is expressed relative to some reference .
an objective specifiction that creates an specific output object from input materials .
a sequencing assay which determines information on the sequence of a dna molecule .
is an objective to transform a material entity into spatially separated components .
a planned process with the objective of collecting a specimen .
a material obtained from an organism in order to be a representative of the whole
a material separation objective aiming to separate material into multiple portions ,  each of which contains a similar composition of the input material .
a material separation objective aiming to separate a material entity that has parts of different types ,  and end with at least one output that is a material with parts of fewer types  ( modulo impurities )  .
a objective specification to obtain a material entity for potential use as an input during an investigation .
host role is a role played by an organism and realized by providing nourishment ,  shelter or a means of reproduction to another organism within the organism playing the host role
a material sample role is a specimen role borne by a material entity that is the output of a material sampling process .
a specimen gathering process with the objective to obtain a specimen that is representative of the input material entity
a material entity that has the material sample role
an objective specification maintains some or all of the qualities of a material over time .
a quality of a dna molecule that inheres in its bearer due to the order of its dna nucleotide residues .
a device in which a measure function inheres .
a process with that achieves the objective to maintain some or all of the characteristics of an input material over time
an extract which is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules are isolated from a specimen .
a specimen that has been intentionally physically modified .
a material entity that is designed to perform a function in a scientific investigation ,  but is not a reagent .
a measurement datum that representing the primary structure of a macromolecule ( it's sequence )  sometimes associated with an indicator of confidence of that measurement .
an extract that is the output of an extraction process in which nucleic acid molecules are isolated from a specimen .
the output of an extraction process in which dna molecules are purified in order to exclude dna from organellas .
an device that is used to determine the order of nucleotides in nucleic acid sequences .
an device that is used to determine the order of amino acids in protein sequences .
an transcription profiling assay that determines an rna sequence by analyzing the transcibed regions of the genome and or to quantitate transcript abundance .
a molecular feature identification objective that aims to characterize the abundance of transcripts
a specimen that derives from an anatomical part or substance arising from an organism .
a time measurement datum when an observation is made or a sample is taken from a material as measured from some reference point .
a sequence data item that is about the primary structure of dna
a time measurement datum that is the measure of the time when the specimens are collected .
a sample preparation for assay that preparation of nucleic acids for a sequencing assay
a processed material that serves as a liquid vehicle for freezing cells for long term quiescent stroage ,  which contains chemicls needed to sustain cell viability across freeze - thaw cycles .
a value specification that consists of two parts: a numeral and a unit label
an information content entity that specifies a value within a classification scheme or on a quantitative scale .
a dna sequencing assay that intends to provide information about the sequence of an entire genome of an organism .
a role borne by a material entity and realized in an assay which achieves the objective to measure the magnitude / concentration / amount of the measurand in the entity bearing evaluant role .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a material entity that has the specimen role .
a processed material comprised of a collection of cultured cells that has been continuously maintained together in culture and shares a common propagation history .
a material separation in which a desired component of an input material is separated from the remainder
a dna sequencer is an instrument that determines the order of deoxynucleotides in deoxyribonucleic acid sequences .
a process with the objective to obtain a material entity that was part of an organism for potential future use in an investigation
environmental_material_collection is an acquisition where an object is taken from an environment and put into a storage container .
a material processing in which components of an input material become segregated in space
a protocol application in which cells are kept alive in a defined environment outside of an organism .
a process through which a new type of cell culture or cell line is created ,  either through the isolation and culture of one or more cells from a fresh source ,  or the deliberate experimental modification of an existing cell culture  ( e .g passaging a primary culture to become a secondary culture or line ,  or the immortalization or stable genetic modification of an existing culture or line )  .
an assay the uses chemical or biochemical means to infer the sequence of a biomaterial
a rna extraction is a nucleic acid extraction where the desired output material is rna
a material separation to recover the nucleic acid fraction of an input material
the detrimental process in which an infectious agent colonizes or replicates in a host environment
is a role borne by an agent ,  and realized when in contact with or inside another organism in which it is capable of replicating and causing disease
abnormal ,  harmful processes caused by or associated with a disease
a genome is a material entity that represents the entirety of an organism's hereditary information .
a gene is a material entity that represents the entire dna sequence required for synthesis of a functional protein or rna molecule .
a biological interaction between a microbiome and its host
a microbiome located in a human body
a biome that consists of a collection of microorganisms  ( i .e . ,  microbiota )  and the surrounding environment where the microorganisms reside .
a microbiome located in a mouse body
a microbiome that includes a collective population of bacterial organisms .
a microbiome that includes a collective population of fungal microorganisms .
a microbiome that includes a collective population of virus
a fungal microbiome that is located in the skin of a host organism
a fungal microbiome that is located in a mucosal site of a host organism  ( e .g . ,  urogenital tract ,  oral cavity ,  and gastrointestinal tract ) 
a fungal microbiome that is located in a lung of a host organism
a host - microbiome interaction where the microbiome interacts with the host immune system
a interaction between microbiome and host immune system where the immune system is the host adaptive immune system
a human microbiome that is located in a human respiratory system
a human microbiome that is located in a human lung
a human microbiome that is located in a human oral system
a human microbiome that is located in a human gastrointestinal system
a human microbiome that is located in a human cutaneous system
a human microbiome that is located in a human urogenital system
a host - microbiome interaction where the host is human
a microbiome located in a human gut .
an interaction between human and gut microbiome .
a human - gut microbiome interaction that is associated with bowel syndrome .
a human - gut microbiome interaction that is associated with crohn's disease .
a human - gut microbiome interaction that is associated with colon cancer .
a human - gut microbiome interaction that involves in clostridium difficile
a human - gut microbiome interaction where antibiotics have significant and long - lasting effects on the intestinal microbiota and consequently reduce colonization resistance against clostridium difficile .
a human - gut microbiome interaction where a fecal microbiota transplantation is used to restore a human gut microbiome to a state resistant to clostridium difficile infection .
an infection process that is caused by clostridioides difficile .
a human gut - microbiome interaction that is associated with rheumatoid arthritis  ( ra )  .
an association of human gut microbiota with rheumatoid arthritis  ( ra )  that shows a patient with rv  exhibits decreased gut microbial diversity
a quality with an increased quantity of a type of organism  ( e .g . ,  bacteria inside human gut )  compared with control .
a quality with an decreased microbiome organism dirversity in a host microbiome environment  ( e .g . ,  gut )  .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of klebsiella pneumoniae in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a quality with a depleted quantity of a type of organism  ( e .g . ,  bacteria inside human gut )  compared with control .
an interaction between human and oral microbiome .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of gordonibacter pamelaeae in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of prevotellaceae in patients with  chronic ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of bifidobacterium bifidum in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of veillonellain in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of sutterella wadsworthensis in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of megamonas hypermegale in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of  [ clostridium ]  asparagiforme in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where b . fragilis is increased .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of eggerthella lenta in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a quality with a depleted quantity of a type of organism  ( e .g . ,  bacteria inside human gut )  in a patient with an acute disease compared with a patient control with the same disease but at a chronic stage .
a host - microbiome interaction where the host is rattus .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bifidobacterium dentium in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of lactobacillus sp in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of ruminococcus lactaris in patients with  chronic ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows high prevotella or high bacteroides relative abundance ,  but rarely a high relative abundance of both .
a quality with a depleted quantity of a type of organism  ( e .g . ,  bacteria inside human gut )  compared with a patient control with the fibromyalgia  ( fm )  disease .
a human gut - microbiome interaction that is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus  ( sle )  .
a human - gut microbiome interaction that is associated with colorectal cancer .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where fusobacterium sp .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where citrobacter is decreased .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of porphyromonas gingivalis in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where shigella is decreased .
a ra human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of rare taxa , prevotella intermedia in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a  ra human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of porphyromonas gingivalis in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of proteus mirabilis in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of collinsella aerofaciens in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a human gut - microbiome interaction that is associated with the diarrhea disease
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of klebsiella in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of lactobacillus salivarius in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of clostridia in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of clostridium perfringens in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of prevotella in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows a depletion of dialister in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of bacteroides in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of porphyromonas in patients with ra compared to fibromyalgia patients
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of prevotella  in patients with ra compared to fibromyalgia patients
an interaction between human and respiratory airway microbiome .
a human respiratory airway microbiome interaction that is associated with rheumatoid arthritis  ( ra )  .
ra human respiratory airway microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of porphyromonas in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
ra human respiratory airway microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of prevotella in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows a depletion of pseudobutyrivibrio in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a human oral cavity microbiome interaction that is associated with  systemic lupus erythematosus   ( sle )  .
a human oral cavity microbiome interaction that is associated with rheumatoid arthritis  ( ra )  .
a ra human oral cavity microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of haemophilus in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of actinobacteria < phylum >  in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of cardiobacterium in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of eikenella in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of kingella in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of rothia aeria in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a diarrheal patient - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of prevotella in patients in the gut of human diarrheal patient compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of prevotella copri in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of haemophilus sp  in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity microbiome interaction that shows an increase of cryptobacterium curtum in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of veillonella in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
an interaction between rattus and gut microbiome .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of escherichia coli in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a sle human oral cavity microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of clostridiales in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of faecalibacterium  in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a human gut - microbiome interaction that is associated with ankylosing spondylitis  ( as )  .
an as human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of ruminococcaceae in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
an as human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of lachnospiraceae in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
an as human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroidaceae in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
an as human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of prevotellaceae in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
an as human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of rare taxa , veillonellaceae in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
an as human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of klebsiella pneumoniae in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
a human oral cavity microbiome interaction that is associated with  ankylosing spondylitis  ( as )  .
an as human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of klebsiella pneumoniae in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
an as human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of prevotella intermedia in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
an as human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of rare taxa , tannerella forsythia in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
a rattus gut - microbiome interaction that is associated with ankylosing spondylitis  ( as )  .
a sle human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of prevotella in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of firmicutes in patients with slecompared with healthy controls .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroidetes in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a human gut - microbiome interaction that is associated with gout .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of rare taxa , bacteroidetes in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroides in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroidales in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of porphyromonadaceae in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroidaceae in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of negativicutes in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
an interaction between human and zone of skin microbiome .
a human  skin microbiome interaction that is associated with  psoriatic arthritis  ( psa )  .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of vibrionaceae in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of photobacterium in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of vibrio  in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where eubacterium ventriosum is decreased .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of lachnospiraceae  in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of ruminococcaceae in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of erysipelatoclostridium in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of escherichia coli epec32 / 73 in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of escherichia coli etec tw03439 in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of barnesiella in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of parasporobacterium in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of paraprevotella in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of anaerotruncus in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of pseudobutyrivibrio in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroides caccae in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroides sp in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroides xylanisolvens xb1a in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of holdemania in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of rare taxa , acetanaerobacterium in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of coprococcus catus in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of faecalibacterium prausnitzii in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of oscillibacter in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of ruminococcus sp .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of odoribacter in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of subdoligranulum in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of robinsoniella in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of dialister in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of alistipes in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a psa human skin microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of propionibacterium acnes 17b in patients with  psa compared with healthy controls .
a human gut - microbiome interaction that is associated with  juvenile psoriatic arthritis ( psa )  .
a psa human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of akkermansia in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of ruminococcus in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of pseudobutyrivibrio in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of verrucomicrobia in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of parabacteroides in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of coprobacillus in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human skin microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of streptococcus in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human skin microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of propionibacterium in patients with  psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human skin microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of actinobacteria  < phylum >  in patients with  psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human skin microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of proteobacteria in patients with  psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human skin microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of firmicutes in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human skin microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroidetes in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of candida albicans in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a human oral cavity microbiome interaction that is associated with  psoriatic arthritis  ( psa )  .
an association of human oral cavity microbiota with psoriatic arthritis ( psa )  that shows an expansion of candida albicans in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human skin microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of malassezia restricta in patients with  psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human skin microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of malassezia sympodialis in patients with  psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human skin microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of malassezia pachydermatis in patients with  psa compared with healthy controls .
an as human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of porphyromonas gingivalis in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
an association of musculus gut microbiota with system lupus erythematosus ( sle )  that shows a depletion of lactobacillus in musculus with sle compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of aggregatibacter in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of neisseria sp .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with ankylosing spondylitis ( as )  that shows an expansion of paraprevotella in rattus with as compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with ankylosing spondylitis ( as )  that shows an expansion of prevotella in rattus with as compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of actinomyces in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of prevotella in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of leptotrichia sp .
a ra human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of rare taxa , tannerella forsythia in patients with ra compared with healthy controls
an association of rattus gut microbiota with ankylosing spondylitis ( as )  that shows a depleted quantity of akkermansia muciniphila in rattus with as compared with healty controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with ankylosing spondylitis ( as )  that shows an expansion of bacteroides vulgatus in rattus with as compared with healthy controls .
a rattus gut - microbiome interaction that is associated with arthritis .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of bifidobacterium in rattus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of propionibacterium acnes 17b in rattus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of lactobacillus casei in rattus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of lactobacillus fermentum in rattus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of lactobacillus murinus in rattus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of lactobacillus acidophilus in rattus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of escherichia coli in rattus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of lactobacillus in rattus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of bacteroidaceae in rattus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis  that shows a depleted quantity of lachnospiraceae in rattus with arthritis compared with healty controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of bacteroides fragilis in rattus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
a host - microbiome interaction where the host is musculus .
an interaction between musculus and gut microbiome .
a musculus gut - microbiome interaction that is associated with system lupus erythematosus ( sle )  .
an association of musculus gut microbiota with system lupus erythematosus ( sle )  that shows an expansion of lachnospiraceae in musculus with sle compared with healthy controls .
an association of musculus gut microbiota with system lupus erythematosus ( sle )  that shows an expansion of ruminococcaceae in musculus with sle compared with healthy controls .
an association of musculus gut microbiota with system lupus erythematosus ( sle )  that shows an expansion of clostridiales in musculus with sle compared with healthy controls .
an association of musculus gut microbiota with system lupus erythematosus ( sle )  that shows an expansion of streptococcaceae in musculus with sle compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of streptococcus pyogenes in rattus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
a musculus gut - microbiome interaction that is associated with arthritis
an association of musuculus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of prevotella copri in musuculus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
an association of musculus gut microbiota with arthritis  that shows a depleted quantity of actinobacteria < class >  in musculus with arthritis compared with healty controls .
an association of musculus gut microbiota with arthritis  that shows a depleted quantity of bacteroides in musculus with arthritis compared with healty controls .
an as human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of dialister in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
an association of musculus gut microbiota with system lupus erythematosus ( sle )  that shows an expansion of alistipes in musculus with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroidia in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroidales in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of vibrio  in patients with slecompared with healthy controls .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of clostridiales in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
ra human respiratory airway microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of treponema in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
ra human respiratory airway microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of burkholderia in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
ra human respiratory airway microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of actynomyces in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
ra human respiratory airway  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of pseudonocardia in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
ra human respiratory airway  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of micrococcus in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
ra human respiratory airway  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of methylobacterium in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a diarrheal patient - gut microbiome interaction that shows an increase of prevotella in patients in the gut of human diarrheal patient compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of eggerthella in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
an as human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of rare taxa , treponema denticola in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
an as human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of rikenellaceae in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
an as human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of porphyromonas macacae in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with ankylosing spondylitis ( as )  that shows a depleted quantity of rikenellaceae in rattus with as compared with healty controls .
an as human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of campylobacter in patients with as compared with healthy controls .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of eubacterium in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of flavonifractor in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of rhodococcus in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a ra human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of rare taxa , atopobium sp .
a sle human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of eggerthella in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human oral cavity microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of prevotella pleuritidis in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human oral cavity microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of pseudomonas sp .
a sle human oral cavity microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of treponema maltophilum in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human oral cavity microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of capnocytophaga gingivalis  in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human oral cavity microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of streptococcus sanguinis in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows a  depletion of haemophilus parainfluenzae in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of prevotella oulorum in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of fretibacterium fastidiosum in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of fusobacterium  in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of selenomonas in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a sle human oral cavity  microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of treponema in patients with sle compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of chloroflexi in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of anaerolineae in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of anaerolineales in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of anaerolineaceae in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of corynebacteriales in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of nocardiaceae in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of rhodococcus in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
a gout human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of selenomonadales in patients with gout compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with arthritis that shows an expansion of desulfovibrionaceae in rattus with arthritis  compared with healthy controls .
a human gut - microbiome interaction that is associated with  juvenile rheumatoid arthritis  ( era )  .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroidaceae in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of enterobacteriaceae in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of enterococcaceae in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroides in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of enterococcus in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of klebsiella in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of prevotella in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of badula fragilis in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroides plebeius in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of prevotellaceae in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of prevotella copri  in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of salmonella in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of prevotella stercorea in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of faecalibacterium prausnitzii in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of lachnospiraceae in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of  [ clostridium ]  clostridioforme in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bifidobacterium in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of akkermansia muciniphila in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
a psa human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of coprococcus in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where parvimonas micra is increased .
a psa human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of diutina rugosa in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
a psa human skin microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of malassezia furfur in patients with psa compared with healthy controls .
an era human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of yersinia in patients with era compared with healthy controls .
a rattus gut - microbiome interaction that is associated with reactive arthritis' .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with reactive arthritis that shows an expansion of yersinia in rattus with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis compared with healthy controls .
an association of rattus gut microbiota with reactive arthritis that shows an expansion of salmonella in rattus with reactive arthritis compared with healthy controls .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where solobacterium moorei is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where fusobacteria is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where basidiomycota is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where parvimonas is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where peptostreptococcus is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where fusobacterium is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where beggiatoa is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where malassezia is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where leptotrichia is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where filifactor is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where crenothrix is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where solobacterium is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where sulfurovum is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where streptobacillus is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where moniliophthora is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where slackia is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where collinsella is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where clostridiaceae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroidales is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where cronobacter is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where kluyvera is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where serratia is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where salmonella enterica subsp .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where eubacteriaceae is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where anaerovorax is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where microbacterium is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroides finegoldii is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroides intestinalis is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where prevotella copri is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where prevotella oris is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where dorea formicigenerans is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where lachnobacterium bovis is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where lachnospira pectinoschiza is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where pseudobutyrivibrio ruminis is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where ruminococcus albus is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where dialister invisus is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where dialister pneumosintes is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where megamonas hypermegale is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where acidaminobacter is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where phascolarctobacterium is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where citrobacter farmeri is increased .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of bacteroides fragilis in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where roseburia is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where anoxybacillus is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroides is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where odoribacter is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where akkermansia muciniphila is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where prevotellaceae is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where porphyromonadaceae is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where clostridiaceae is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where parabacteroides is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where paraalistipes is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroides ovatus is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroides xylanisolvens is increased .
an interaction between human and urine microbiome .
a human urine - microbiome interaction that is associated with rheumatoid arthritis  ( ra )  .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where lachnospiraceae is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where enterobacteriaceae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where lactobacillus acidophilus is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroides is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where clostridiales is decreased .
a diarrheal patient - gut microbiome interaction that shows an increase of unclassified proteobacteria in patients in the gut of human diarrheal patient compared with healthy controls .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where firmicutes is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroidetes is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroidales is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where rikenellaceae is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroides uniformis is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where providencia is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroidaceae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where streptococcaceae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where fusobacteriaceae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where peptostreptococcaceae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where veillonellaceae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where pasteurellaceae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where porphyromonas is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where mogibacterium is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where erysipelotrichaceae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where prevotellaceae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where coriobacteriaceae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where ruminococcaceae is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where lactobacillaceae is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bifidobacterium longum is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where faecalibacterium prausnitzii is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where blautia is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where lactobacillus rhamnosus is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where lactobacillus reuteri is decreased .
a ra human - urine microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of proteus mirabilis in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where alistipes putredinis is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where lachnospiraceae bacterium is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where escherichia coli nc101 is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bilophila wadsworthia is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bifidobacterium animalis is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where streptococcus thermophilus is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where ruminococcus is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bifidobacterium is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where streptococcus is decreased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where escherichia is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bilophila is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroidetes is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where streptococcus equinus is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where enterococcaceae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where campylobacter is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where salmonella is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where shigella is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bifidobacterium animalis subsp .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where chlamydia is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where mycobacterium is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where clostridia is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where candidatus portiera is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where proteus mirabilis is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where klebsiella pneumoniae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction whereproteobacteria is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where helicobacter is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where roseburia hominis is decreased .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of blautia coccoides in patients with ra compared with fibromyalgia patients .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where helicobacter pylori is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where helicobacter hepaticus is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where fusobacterium nucleatum is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where peptostreptococcus anaerobius is increased .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of bacteroides in patients with ra compared with fibromyalgia patients .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where fusobacterium hwasookii is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where porphyromonas gingivalis is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where selenomonas is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where prevotella is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where peptostreptococcus stomatis is increased .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of bacteroides fragilis in patients with ra compared with fibromyalgia patients .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where solobacterium sp .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where dolosicoccus paucivorans is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where clostridium sp .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where bacteroides sp .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where subdoligranulum sp .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where mycobacterium avium is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where escherichia coli b is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where  [ haemophilus ]  ducreyi is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where shigella dysenteriae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where campylobacter jejuni is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where salmonella enterica is increased .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of bifidobacterium bifidum in patients with ra compared with fibromyalgia patients .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where pseudomonas is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where acinetobacter is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where blautia obeum is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where catenisphaera adipataccumulans is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where microbacterium is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where anoxybacillus is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where citrobacter rodentium is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where enterococcus faecalis is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where  [ clostridium ]  scindens is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where  [ clostridium ]  hiranonis  is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where  [ clostridium ]  hylemonae is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where acidovorax is increased .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where streptococcus gallolyticus is increased .
a ra human gut microbiome interaction that shows an decrease of haemophilus sp  in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where fusobacterium nucleatum subsp .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where fusobacterium nucleatum subsp .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where fusobacterium nucleatum subsp .
a colorectal cancer human - gut microbiome interaction where fusobacterium nucleatum subsp .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction that shows an expansion of bacteroides sp in patients with ra compared with healthy controls .
a ra human - gut microbiome interaction where lachnospiraceae bacterium is increased .
an organism or virus or viron that is too small to be viewed by the unaided eye .
a physical object quality that is inhered in a material entity that is too small to be viewed by the unaided eye .
a collection of microbial organisms that reside in a particular environment .
a measurement datum that is a logarithmic scale used to specify the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution .
a drug product that has its ability to alter the progression of a rheumatic disease .
a quality of ecological community that refers to how common or rare a species is relative to other species in a defined location or community
a relative species abundance that refers to the microbial species abundance in a host ecosystem
a genome from a microbe
the mean species diversity in sites or habitats at a local scale
the ratio between regional and local species diversity
the total species diversity in a landscape
a biological process that leads to the restoration of microbial community in a host organism
a host microbiome restoration that is due to a treatment
host microbiome restoration by a dmard treatment
host microbiome restoration by an antibiotics treatment
host microbiome restoration through the transplantation of a microbiota into the host
a microbe that is differentially enriched in a microbiome host and can serve as a marker for a dysbiosis
a microbe that is differentially enriched in a microbiome host and can serve as a marker for a disease
an host - microbiome interaction that involves the interaction between enteric microbiota on the host and the host brain  ( esp .
an host - microbiome interaction that is associated with cancer
an interaction between microbiome and host immune system that is associated with cancer
an organism that has 'host role' ,  i .e . ,  a role played by an organism and realized by providing nourishment ,  shelter or a means of reproduction to another organism .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
a quality that inheres in an entire population or part of a population .
a material entity that consists of two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids .
a quality that inheres in a community .
the number of different species represented in an ecological community .
the number of different species that are represented in a given community ,  weighted by their abundance .
a quality of a community that reflects how close in abundance all species in a community are .
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
a sequence_feature with an extent greater than zero .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
a subdivision of the digestive tract that connects the small intestine to the cloaca or anus .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
an airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
subdivision of digestive tract that connects the stomach to the large intestine and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place  ( with the exception of ruminants )  .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the beginning of the intestines to the anus [ go  -  gut definition ]  .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the mouth cavity through pharynx esophagus stomach and duodenum .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
