an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
b is a continuant fiat boundary = def .
material anatomical entity that is a member of an individual species or is a viral or viroid particle .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mycoplasma genitalium .
a carboxylic acid anion resultig from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of a dicarboxylic acid monoester .
a class of carbonyl compound encompassing dicarboxylic acids and any derivatives obtained by substitution of either one or both of the carboxy hydrogens .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
a bronsted acid derived from one or more inorganic compounds .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
a cyclic tetrapyrrole anion that is the carbanion obtained by removal of the acidic proton from position 21 of any chlorophyll .
a cyclic tetrapyrrole anion obtained by removal of the acidic proton from position 21 as well as deprotonation of the carboxy group of any chlorophyllide .
any agent that induces nausea and vomiting .
a molecular entity that can transfer an electron to another molecular entity .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
an oxygen hydride consisting of an oxygen atom that is covalently bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
a primary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
a monoatomic monoanion resulting from the addition of an electron to any halogen atom .
a one - carbon compound in which the carbon is attached by single bonds to four hydrogen atoms .
a one - carbon compound with formula co2 in which the carbon is attached to each oxygen atom by a double bond .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
a one - carbon compound in which the carbon is joined only to a single oxygen .
a nitrogen oxoanion formed by loss of a proton from nitric acid .
the primary alcohol that is the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
a mononuclear parent hydride consisting of covalently bonded hydrogen and chlorine atoms .
a molecular entity that can transfer  (  \ "donate \ " )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
an elemental molecule consisting of two trivalently - bonded nitrogen atoms .
an acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula cnh2n + 2 ,  and therefore consisting entirely of hydrogen atoms and saturated carbon atoms .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of chlorine .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
any carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxy group with methanol .
a molecule all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
an oxoacid containing a single carboxy group .
an endogenous compound that is used to transmit information across the synapse between a neuron and another cell .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
any organic ion with a net positive charge .
an oxide in which the oxygen atom is bonded to a carbon atom .
an  alcohol derived from an aliphatic compound .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
natural pigments containing a fundamental skeleton of four pyrrole nuclei united through the alpha - positions by four methine groups to form a macrocyclic structure .
an inorganic chloride salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the counterion .
any alkali metal salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
a natural pigment containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
any nutrient required in small quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
a family of magnesium porphyrins ,  defined by the presence of a fifth ring beyond the four pyrrole - like rings .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
an assembly consisting of a central atom  ( usually metallic )  to which is attached a surrounding array of other groups of atoms  ( ligands )  .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a fertilizer is any substance that is added to soil or water to assist the growth of plants .
any material that can be ingested by an organism .
an energy - rich substance that can be transformed with release of usable energy .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkali metal .
an alkaline earth molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkaline earth metal .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a hydracid is a compound which contains hydrogen that is not bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
a main group molecular entity containing one or more atoms of any noble gas .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
any acyclic or cyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated carbon compound ,  excluding aromatic compounds .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a macromolecule formed by a living organism .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a substance used in a chemical reaction to detect ,  measure ,  examine ,  or produce other substances .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a fuel such as coal ,  oil and natural gas which has formed over many years through the decomposition of deposited vegetation which was under extreme pressure of an overburden of earth .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
a substance that reduces or suppresses inflammation .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
a carboxylic acid anion formed when the carboxy group of a monocarboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a monoester of a dicarboxylic acid .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
a coordination entity in which the central atom to which the ligands are attached comes from groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  or 18 of the periodic table .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any heteroatomic molecular entity that is a chemical compound of halogen with other chemical elements .
a compound composed of two or more pyrrole units .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
chlorophylls lacking the terpenoid side chain such as phytyl or farnesyl .
an ec 1 .9 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cytochrome c oxidase  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .1 )  .
substance which produces loss of feeling or sensation .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
in general ,  a mineral is a chemical substance that is normally crystalline formed and has been formed as a result of geological processes .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
anything used in a scientific experiment to indicate the presence of a substance or quality ,  change in a body ,  etc .
a nitrogen oxoacid of formula hno3 in which the nitrogen atom is bonded to a hydroxy group and by equivalent bonds to the remaining two oxygen atoms .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors that normally bind naturally occurring substances .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the activity of cytochrome p450 involved in catalysis of organic substances .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
a role played by a molecular entity used to study the microscopic environment .
an aliphatic alcohol in which the aliphatic alkane chain is substituted by a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of methanol .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any molecule or ion capable of binding to a central metal atom to form coordination complexes .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
a cyclic tetrapyrrole anion that is the conjugate base of chlorophyllide a arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
conjugate acid of carbon monoxide arising from protonation of the carbon ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a cyclic tetrapyrrole anion arising from deprotonation at the 21 - position of chlorophyll a .
an organic anion arising from deprotonation of a cyclic tetrapyrrole compound .
a substance used as an indicator  of a biological state .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
a molecular messenger in which the molecule is specifically involved in transmitting information between cells .
a family of nitrogen molecular entities which are highly reactive and derived from nitric oxide  (  .no )  and superoxide  ( o2 .
a substance that removes electrons from another reactant in a redox reaction .
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
any compound that has anti - inflammatory effects .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range ,  so contributing to the 'greenhouse effect' .
a compressed gas or liquid with a boiling point lower than room temperature which to used to propel and dispense liquids such as deodorants ,  insecticides ,  paints ,  etc .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase  ( ec 1 .* .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on a heme group of donors  ( ec 1 .9 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on hydrogen as donors  ( ec 1 .14 .* .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme incorporating one atom of oxygen and using reduced flavin or flavoprotein as donor  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .
an ec 1 .9 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .
an ec 1 .14 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating of 1 atom of oxygen ,  with reduced flavin or flavoprotein as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of an unspecified monooxygenase  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .1 )  .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with one or more steps in a metabolic pathway .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
a food additive that is a  ( generally inert )  gas which is used to envelop foodstuffs during packing and so protect them from unwanted chemical reactions such as food spoilage or oxidation during subsequent transport and storage .
a propellant that is used to expel foods from an aerosol container .
any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
any compound that is added to manufactured materials to inhibit ,  suppress ,  or delay the production of flames and so prevent the spread of fire .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
a cyclic tetrapyrrole anion arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group and the c - 21 posiiton of chlorophyllide a .
a system in which living entities consume living ,  dead ,  or non - living entities or are consumed by other living entities through trophic interactions .
a food web in which the outputs of a trophic interaction are consumed by organisms acting in a lower trophic level relative to the initial interaction .
a system in which a series of living entities consume living ,  dead ,  or non - living entities in successively higher trophic levels .
a function which inheres in a living entity by virtue of that entity being able to feed on a material .
a function which inheres in a living entity by virtue of that entity being able to feed on living or once - living  ( dead )  material .
a function which inheres in a living entity by virtue of that entity being able to harvest energy and create biomass from non - living materials .
a function which inheres in a living entity by virtue of that entity being able to realize autotrophic and heterotrophic functions .
a process during which a living entity acquires or generates food and energy from a living ,  dead ,  or non - living entity .
a trophic interaction process during which a living entity acquires energy and generates biomass from non - living entities .
an organism that obtains carbon for growth and development by metabolizing biogenic organic compounds derived from living or dead material .
a trophic interaction process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming another organism or organism part ,  living or dead .
an organism which is capable of heterotrophic and autotrophic trophic processes .
a process during which a living entity generates food from abiotic sources and captures energy from light .
a process during which a living entity acquires reducing equivalents from inorganic chemicals for use in biosynthesis or energy conservation via aerobic or anaerobic respiration .
a heterotroph which consumes fungi .
a heterotrophic process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming living fungal material .
a process during which a living entity generates food from abiotic sources or through consumption of living or dead material ,  and captures energy from light .
a history which includes all the processes during which resources are used by an organism to grow ,  survive ,  and reproduce over its lifetime .
a heterotroph which consumes plants or macroalgae via ingestion through a type of  \ "mouth \ " .
a heterotrophic process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming living plant -  or macro - algal material .
a heterotrophic process during which a living entity acquires food and energy from consuming living metazoan  ( animal )  material .
an organism which is capable of incorporating abiogenic  ( inorganic )  carbon into its biomass .
quotient  ( or ratio )  of surface area of an organism divided by the mass of the same organism
the duration of the development from fertilized ,  deposited or implanted egg to hatching / birth .
type of food comprising the majority of the diet of an organism
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce offspring that develop inside a shelled egg ,  with a large food supply in yolk ,  after internal fertilization
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce offspring that are born live ,  or where the development of the offspring is supported by either parent in or on any part of their body
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce offspring that are born live after retaining the eggs inside the body of the female
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce offspring via external fertilization ,  the oocytes being released and fertilized outside the female's body by the male
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce zygotes that develop in the female's oviducts ,  but find their nutriments from other tissues ,  whether skin or glandular tissue
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce offspring that receive nutriments from the female during prenatal development via a specialized structure ,  such as a placenta
the second post - naupliar life stage of a copepod
the third post - naupliar life stage of a copepod
the fourth post - naupliar life stage of a copepod
the fifth post - naupliar life stage of a copepod
the sixth post - naupliar life stage of a copepod
an evolutionary quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's morphological and physiological adaptation for running
an evolutionary quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's morphological and physiological adaptation for digging and living underground
an evolutionary quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's morphological and physiological adaptation for living in trees
a reproductive quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer having reproductive organs normally associated with both male and female sexes at the same time
a reproductive quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer having female reproductive organs at the beginning of its life and then switching to male reproductive organs
the process by which a larvae transforms into an adult wherein the larvae looks like a smaller adult form
heterotroph that acquires nutrition from a symbiont
an organism bearing a symbiont role and capable of living within a plant for at least part of its life cycle without causing apparent disease
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in a distinct juvenile form that is provided with a source of nutrition ,  usually a yolk sac ,  to use before metamorphosing into an adult
a community of microscopic ,  unicellular eukaryotic algae and the prokaryotic cyanobacteria which live on sediment surfaces
organism that acquires nutrition by consuming particles of organic matter that have settled to the bottom of a body of water .
a heterotroph that acquires nutrition by consuming particles suspended in water or air .
organism that acquires nutrition by consuming particles of organic matter that have settled to the bottom of a body of water .
organism that acquires nutrition by consuming particles of organic matter that have settled to the bottom of a body of water .
heterotroph that obtains nutrition by breaking down dead or decaying organisms or other organic matter
a decomposer which obtains nutrition by consuming detritus .
a decomposer that obtains nutrition through extracellular digestion of decaying organic matter
a decomposition process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming detritus .
a heterotrophic process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by breaking down organic substances into simpler matter .
a decomposition process during which a living entity acquires food and energy through extracellular digestion of decaying organic matter .
a heterotrophic process during which a living entity acquires food and energy through a symbiotic relationship with another organism .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the organization of the systems of organs involved with sexual reproduction amongst the bearer's conspecifics .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the structure of the bearer's conspecifics in relation to sexual behavior .
one male and one female have an exclusive mating relationship
one female has an exclusive mating relationship with two or more males
one male has an exclusive mating relationship with two or more females
two or more males have an exclusive mating relationship with two or more females
a member of one sex mates with any member of the opposite sex
the ecological state of a species being unique to a defined geographic location ,  such as an island ,  nation ,  or other defined zone or habitat type .
the ecological state of a species or population wherein all individuals are dead .
the ecological state of a species living in a region where its presence is the result of only natural process ,  with no human intervention
the ecological state of a species living outside its native distributional range ,  which has arrived there by human activity ,  either deliberate or accidental .
the ecological state that is not the extinct state
the ecological state of a species being found across all or most of the world in appropriate habitats .
the ecological state of a species being unique to a very small and specific location ,  such as the side of a mountain or a single lake .
the estimated proportion of members of a population alive in year t that is still alive in year t  +  1
a polyphyletic group of diverse photosynthetic organisms that excludes vascular plants and mosses and includes cyanobacteria ,  seaweed ,  and some single - celled organisms .
bacteria that are able to obtain their energy through photosynthesis
an evolutionary quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's morphological and physiological adaptation for being active during the hours of darkness
an evolutionary quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's morphological and physiological adaptation for being active during the hours of daylight
an evolutionary quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's morphological and physiological adaptation for participating in long - distance movement of conspecifics ,  usually on a seasonal basis
an herbivore that primarily consumes grasses .
an herbivore that primarily consumes leaves
an herbivore that primarily consumes roots
an herbivore that primarily consumes algae
a heterotroph with a temporary parasitic association with another organism that leads to the death of the host .
a heterotroph that consumes animals in whole or in part via ingestion through a type of  \ "mouth \ " .
a carnivore that actively captures and consumes other animals ,  causing their immediate or immenent death
a carnivore that feeds on dead and decaying animal matter
a predator that primarily eats insects
a predator that eats secondary consumers
a predator that eats tertiary consumers
a predator residing at the top of a food chain upon which no other creatures prey .
a predator that captures or traps prey by stealth or strategy ,  rather than by speed or strength .
a detritivore that consumes leaf litter
a heterotroph that consumes bacteria
a herbivorous process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming grasses ,  leaves ,  and other soft plant material .
a herbivorous process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming seeds of a plant .
a herbivorous process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming twigs ,  leaves ,  and bark of trees and shrubs .
a carnivorous process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming other animals while they are stil alive .
a carnivorous process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming dead or decaying animal matter .
a predation process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming all or part of another individual of the same species as food .
a cannibalistic process during which an embryo obtains food and energy by consuming a less - developed sibling while both are still in the uterus .
a cannibalistic process during which an embryo obtains food and energy by consuming a less - developed sibling embryo while both are still in the uterus .
a cannibalistic process during which an embryo obtains food and energy by consuming less - developed sibling eggs while both are still in the uterus .
a predation process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming insects .
a predation process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming eggs .
a predation process during which a group of predators cooperates to kill creatures larger than those they could overpower singly .
a heterotrophic process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming a very narrow range of food items ,  sometimes only one .
a heterotrophic process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming a few ,  very specific food items .
a heterotrophic process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming a wide range of food items .
a heterotrophic process during which a living entity acquires food and energy from consuming bacteria .
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce offspring via external fertilisation ,  the oocytes being scattered into the environment and fertilised outside the female's body by the male .
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce offspring via external fertilisation ,  the oocytes being released in an ovigerous sac and fertilised outside the female's body by the male .
a reproductive quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer having male reproductive organs at the beginning of its life and then switching to female reproductive organs
a reproductive quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer having female reproductive organs at the beginning of its life and then switching to being a hermaphrodite
a reproductive quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer having male reproductive organs at the beginning of its life and then switching to being a hermaphrodite
sequential hermaphroditism occurs when the individual changes sex at some point in its life .
a photoautotroph which is capable of using a biogenic organic compound as an electron donor .
a photoautotroph which is capable of using an abiogenic organic compound as an electron donor .
a chemoautotroph which is capable of using a biogenic organic compound as an electron donor .
a chemoautotroph which is capable of using an abiogenic organic compound as an electron donor .
a photoheterotroph which is capable of using a biogenic organic compound as an electron donor .
a photoheterotroph which is capable of using an abiogenic organic compound as an electron donor .
a chemoheterotroph which is capable of using a biogenic organic compound as an electron donor .
a chemoheterotroph which is capable of using an abiogenic organic compound as an electron donor .
an autotroph which is capable of obtaining energy from the bonds in a chemical compound .
an autotroph which is capable of transforming light into chemical energy .
a heterotroph which is capable of transforming light into chemical energy .
a heterotroph which is capable of obtaining energy from the bonds in a chemical compound .
an organism that thrives in physically or geochemically extreme conditions that are detrimental to most life on earth
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to live on the surface of the soil and in leaf litter
an herbivore that primarily consumes fruits or fruit - like vegetables
an herbivore that primarily consumes pollen
a heterotrophic process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by eating food off of a surface while slowly moving through the environment .
an herbivore that primarily consumes nectar
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to live in the top 20 cm of soil and make temporary ,  horizontal burrows .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to burrow more than 20 cm deep into the soil and make permanent ,  vertical burrows .
an herbivore that primarily consumes seeds
an herbivore that primarily consumes wood
an herbivore that primarily consumes plant exudates  -  gums ,  saps ,  and resins
a symbiotroph that reduces the fitness ,  survival ,  or growth of its symbiont ,  often called a host
a symbiotrophic process during which a living entity acquires food and energy from another living entity via a close association .
an organism that is consumed in whole or in part by a predator
prey that is successfully captured and consumed at a higher frequency than other types of prey .
prey that is consumed only if the preferred prey are unavailable .
a parasite that lives entirely within the body of its host
a parasite that lives on the exterior surface of its host
a parasite that enters the body of the host ,  but remains partially outside
a predation process during which a living entity acquires food and energy by consuming snakes .
a heterotrophic process during which a living entity acquires food and energy from consuming hard organisms or hard parts of organisms .
a predator that primarily eats fish
a suspension feeder that acquires nutrition by consuming particles using a filtering apparatus .
a suspension feeder that acquires nutrition by consuming planktonic organisms .
a heterotroph that obtains dissolved organic compounds by osmosis for nutrition .
a form of symbiosis in which a bacterium provides chemically - derived energy and nutrients ,  often via the oxidation of hydrogen sulfide ,  to a higher organism .
a symbiosis in which a photosynthetic organism provides energy and nutrients to a heterotrophic organism .
a process during which a living entity acquires reducing equivalents from organic chemicals for use in biosynthesis or energy conservation via aerobic or anaerobic respiration .
a process during which a living entity generates food from abiotic sources or through consumption of living or dead material ,  and captures energy from preformed molecules .
a carnivore that consumes blood ,  during a brief ,  temporary interaction .
a carnivorous process during which a living entity acquires food and energy from consuming blood .
a reproductive process wherein a virus uses another cell for reproduction .
a folivore that lives in and eats the leaf tissue of plants
an herbivore that primarily consumes grasses ,  leaves ,  and other soft plant material
an herbivore that primarily consumes twigs ,  leaves ,  and bark of trees and shrubs .
a carnivore that primarily eats organisms less than 1 cm in their longest dimension
an organism that uses inorganic sulfur compounds as a terminal electron acceptor during cellular respiration
an organism that does not require oxygen for growth
an organism that can survive and grow in an oxygenated environment
an organism capable of producing all amino acids required for its growth
an organism that is unable to synthesize a particular organic compound required for its growth
a decomposer which obtains nutrition by consuming feces
an anthropogenic geographic feature is a geographic feature resulting from the influence of human beings on nature .
a geographical feature associated with water .
a marine water body which is constitutes the majority of an astronomical body's hydrosphere .
a large expanse of saline water usually connected with an ocean .
a geographical feature associated with water with a halinity above 30 ppt  ( roughly 35 g / l )  .
a lake whose water contains a considerable concentration of dissolved salts .
a body of water or other liquid of considerable size contained in a depression on a landmass .
an vegetated area which overlaps a wetland ecosystem .
an accumulation of water of varying size .
a depression which has been formed as a result of erosion by water or ice and which is low - lying ,  bordered by higher ground ,  and especially elongate .
a hydrographic feature characterized by the dominance of snow or ice .
soil or rock and included ice or organic material at or below the freezing point of water  ( 0 degrees celsius or 32 degrees fahrenheit )  for two or more years .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical distance of a point above or below a reference surface .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of solid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a valley that contains ,  or contained ,  a glacier and was formed by glacial activity .
that part of the land in immediate contact with a body of water including the area between high and low water lines .
a landform sunken or depressed below the surrounding area .
a biome is an ecosystem to which resident ecological communities have evolved adaptations .
a biome that applies to the terrestrial realm .
an aquatic biome that comprises systems of open - ocean and unprotected coastal habitats ,  characterized by exposure to wave action ,  tidal fluctuation ,  and ocean currents as well as systems that largely resemble these .
a rock is a naturally occurring solid aggregate of one or more minerals or mineraloids .
soil is an environmental material which is primarily composed of minerals ,  varying proportions of sand ,  silt ,  and clay ,  organic material such as humus ,  gases ,  liquids ,  and a broad range of resident micro -  and macroorganisms .
a significant accumulation of water which is part of a marine biome .
a solid astronomical body part which is part of the planetary surface between the peak of an elevation or the bottom of a depression and  relatively flat surrounding land .
the mixture of gases  ( roughly  ( by molar content / volume: 78% nitrogen ,  20 .95% oxygen ,  0 .93% argon ,  0 .038% carbon dioxide ,  trace amounts of other gases ,  and a variable amount  ( average around 1% )  of water vapor )  that surrounds the planet earth .
an environmental material primarily composed of dihydrogen oxide in its liquid form .
sediment is an environmental substance comprised of any particulate matter that can be transported by fluid flow and which eventually is deposited as a layer of solid particles on the bedor bottom of a body of water or other liquid .
water which contains a significant concentration of dissolved salts .
water which has physicochemical properties that have been determined by the processes occuring in a sea or ocean .
a material entity which determines an environmental system .
a group of hydrous aluminium phyllosilicate  ( phyllosilicates being a subgroup of silicate minerals )  minerals  ( see clay minerals )  ,  that are typically less than 2 micrometres in diameter .
a portion of enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of some material entity .
a portion of environmental material is a fiat object part which forms the medium or part of the medium of an environmental system .
a layer of some material entity which is adjacent to one or more of its external boundaries and directly interacts with its immediate surroundings .
airborne solid particles  ( also called dust or particulate matter  ( pm )  )  or liquid droplets .
silt is granular material of a size somewhere between sand and clay whose mineral origin is quartz and feldspar .
a naturally occurring granular material composed of finely divided rock and mineral particles .
the marine pelagic biome  ( pelagic meaning open sea )  is that of the marine water column ,  from the surface to the greatest depths .
the neritic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column above a continental shelf .
the oceanic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column offshore ,  beyond a continental shelf .
the oceanic sea surface microlayer  ( sml )  biome comprises the top 1000 micrometers of the marine surface waters occurring offshore ,  away from a continental shelf .
the neritic sea surface microlayer  ( sml )  biome comprises the top 1000 micrometers of marine surface waters occurring above a continental shelf .
a prominent or distinctive aspect ,  quality ,  or characteristic of environments occurring within the marine water column .
particulate material is an environmental material which is composed of microscopic portions of solid or liquid material suspended in another environmental material .
a portion of planktonic material is a portion of environmental material primarily composed of plankton .
environmental material derived from living organisms and composed primarily of one or more biomacromolecules .
a shrubland biome is a terrestrial biome which includes ,  across its entire spatial extent ,  dense groups of shrubs .
an environmental condition is a range of a determinate quality or combination of qualities that are present in an environmental system .
a montane shrubland biome is a shrubland biome which occurs in regions elevated above sea level and which has community structure determined by elevation - dependent environmental conditions .
a system which has the disposition to environ one or more material entities .
a mineral material is an environmental material which is primarily composed of some substance that is naturally occurring ,  solid and stable at room temperature ,  representable by a chemical formula ,  usually abiogenic ,  and that has an ordered atomic structure .
water vapour is a vapour which is the gas phase of water .
an atmosphere is a layer of gases surrounding a material body of sufficient mass that is held in place by the gravity of the body .
atmospheric water vapour is water vapour that is part of an atmosphere .
a large unit of land or water containing a geographically distinct assemblage of species ,  natural communities ,  and environmental conditions ."
ice is water frozen into a solid state .
ecozones delineate large areas of a planetary surface within which organisms have been evolving in relative isolation over long periods of time ,  separated from one another by geographic features ,  such as oceans ,  broad deserts ,  or high mountain ranges ,  that constitute barriers to migration .
a layer is a quantity of some material which is spatially continuous ,  has comparable thickness ,  and usually covers some surface .
a layer which is part of a lake .
a mass of ice .
a layer that is part of a marine water body .
an endolithic environment is an environment that exists within solid rock .
a high temperature environment is an environment in which material entities are exposed to increased levels of heat radiation or which have molecules or atoms moving randomly with increased levels of average kinietic energy .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by saline water .
an environment which has a lower temperature than some local or global average .
an anthropogenic environment is an environmental system which is the product of human activity .
a high osmolarity environment is an environment in which entities are exposed to high concentrations of solutes .
an environment whose dynamics are strongly influenced by water .
a rocky slope is a slope which has a surface primarily composed of rock .
a marine environment and enviroment which is determined by a marine water body .
an environmental system determined by seawater .
a planetary surface is a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of a planet comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
a layer in a water mass ,  itself composed primarily of water .
a montane condition is an environmental condition in which an altitude range falls between mid - altitude forests and the tree line .
an altitudinal condition is an environmental condition in which ranges of factors such as temperature ,  humidity ,  soil composition ,  solar irradiation ,  and tree density vary with ranges in altitude .
an organic material primarily composed of a portion of plant root .
a layer which is determined by a form of vegetation .
snow is an environmental material which is primarily composed of flakes of crystalline water ice .
a site which has its extent determined by the presence or influence of one or more components of an environmental system or the processes occurring therein .
a gas that is primarily composed of hydrocarbon molecules .
a lentic water body is a water body in which the accumulated water ,  in its totality ,  has very little to no directed flow .
hydrological condensation is a process in which atmospheric water vapour undergoes a phase transition from the gas phase to the liquid phase .
land is a planetary surface that is not covered by liquid .
outer space is a hard vacuum containing a low density of particles ,  predominantly a plasma of hydrogen and helium as well as electromagnetic radiation ,  magnetic fields ,  neutrinos ,  dust and cosmic rays that exists between celestial bodies .
a planetary crust is the outermost solid shell of a rocky planet or natural satellite ,  which is chemically distinct from the underlying mantle .
a planetary structural layer is laminar part of a terrestrial planet or other rocky body large enough to have differentiation by density .
a mass of water .
a coast is the area where land meets the sea ,  ocean ,  or lake .
hydrological precipitation is a process during which any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapour is pulled to the planetary surface by gravity .
condensation is a process during which a gas undergoes a phase transition into a liquid .
an environmental system which can sustain and allow the growth of an ecological population .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of gaseous or aerosolised material held in shape by one or more environmental processes .
a material entity which is composed of one or more chemical entities and has neither independent shape nor volume but tends to expand indefinitely .
an object which is naturally occuring ,  bound together by gravitational or electromagnetic forces ,  and surrounded by space .
a planet is an astronomical body orbiting a star or stellar remnant that is massive enough to be rounded by its own gravity ,  is not massive enough to cause thermonuclear fusion ,  and has cleared its neighbouring region of planetesimals .
an object which is composed of one or more gravitationally bound structures that are associated with a position in space .
a material part of an astronomical body .
an environmental material which is in a solid state .
an environmental material which is in a liquid state .
a biosphere is a part of an astronomical body which includes ,  as parts ,  all the living entities within the gravitational sphere of influence of that body ,  as well as the non - living and dead entities with which they interact .
a cryosphere is that part of a planet which is primarily composed of water is in solid form .
an astronomical body part which is composed of the combined mass of water found on ,  under ,  and over the surface of a planet .
a precipitation process is a process in which a portion of some substance segregates from a material in which that substance or its precursors were dissolved or suspended in and settles due to a force such as gravity or centrifugal force .
a hydrological process in which irregular aggregates of snow fall to a planetary surface .
an ecosystem which bridges two or more adjoining ecosystems and through which organisms may move or propagate .
an envirommental system which bridges two or more biomes and which includes ecological communities which blend these biomes' phylogenetic and phenotypic compositions .
an environmental system in which minimal to no anthropisation has occurred and non - human agents are the primary determinants of the system's dynamics and composition .
a process during which a natural environmental system is altered by human action .
a planet that is composed primarily of silicate rocks or metals .
a process whereby a volume of liquid moves due to a disequilibrium of physical forces .
a process during which a volume of water is transported due to a disequilibria in physical forces .
an environmental system which is determined by materials bearing roughly homogeneous qualities .
an environmental system within which an environmental material strongly influences the system's composition and properties .
an environmental system which is determined by a living organism .
an environmental system determined by a green plant .
an environmental system determined by an animal .
a meteor is any matter -  or energy - based entity which is located in the atmosphere of an astronomical body .
a meteor which is primarily composed of water .
a meteor which is primarily composed of rock .
a lake which has formed as the result of processes that are not or are only minimally driven by human activity .
a process during which energy is emitted or transmitted in the form of waves or particles through space or a material medium .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a bodily secretion of a metazoan .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a digestive tract .
an environment which is determined by materials which bear significant concentrations of salts .
an environmental system determined by a fungal structure .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by soil .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by sediment .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by an aerosol .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a saline aerosol .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by an aerosol with a low concentration of dissolved solutes .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead animal ,  or a whole small animal .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead plant ,  or a whole small plant .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead fungus .
an astronomical body which is composed of rocky or metallic materials and is considerably smaller than asteroids .
a material which is composed primarily of one or more pure metals and which shows their properties .
an aerosol which has non - gaseous parts that are primarily composed of liquid droplets .
an aerosol which has non - gaseous parts that are primarily composed of solid particles .
an organic material which is primarily composed of dead particulate matter .
an environmental system which includes both living and non - living components .
a planet which is primarily composed of hydrogen and helium .
an ice is an environmental material which is either frozen or which is maintained in a solid state by gravitational forces or pressure .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by water ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of water .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by ice ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of ice .
a gas planet which has an atmosphere composed primarily of helium .
a material which is composed primarily of chemical elements and compounds with relatively low boiling points ,  equilibrium condensation temperatures below 1300 kelvin ,  and which are part of the crust or atmosphere of a moon or planet .
an astrogeological volatile which is composed primarily of chemical compounds with boiling points around those of hydrogen and helium .
a quality which inheres in a astronomical body or astronomical body part by virtue of the variation in its material composition ,  participation in geological processes ,  and the variation in is land -  and hydroforms .
an environment which has its properties and composition largely determined by the presence of a metazoan which lacks a vetebral column and which has a habitat that is found in an aquatic environmental system .
the surface layer of a volume of water .
the surface layer of a mass of sediment .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a land mass or the atmosphere or space adjacent to it .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a marine environment .
a terrestrial ecosystem which is inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support ,  and that under normal circumstances does support ,  a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions .
a natural environment which is located on a land mass .
a natural environment which is within a water body .
a layer which is primarily composed of some liquid material .
a layer which is primarily composed of some solid material ,  allowing for non - solid parts such as interstitial pockets of gas or liquid .
a layer which is primarily composed of some solid material ,  allowing for non - solid parts such as interstitial pockets of gas or liquid .
an environmental zone which is part of an atmosphere .
a vegetated area is a geographic feature which has ground cover dominated by plant communities .
a geographic feature which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid water held in shape or sustained by an environmental process .
a liquid surface layer which is in contact with air .
a liquid surface layer which is in contact with air .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of solid environmental material .
a body of water which is primarily composed of saline water .
a biogeochemical cycle which has nitrogen - bearing chemical entities as participants .
a material transport process during which a volume of material is displaced due to a disequilibrium in physical forces and during which 1 )  the qualities that inhere in that volume and 2 )  the processes that are unfolding within it are largely unchanged .
an action of exogenic processes  ( such as water flow or wind )  which remove environmental material from one location on the surface of an astronomical body ,  transporting it to another location where it is deposited .
a material transport process during which solid or liquid particles are directly introduced into a volume of gas .
a process during which an ecosystem  -  natural or anthropised  -  is changed by the actions of humans .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid or gaseous material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of an astronomical body comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
a material transformation process during which a material's viscosity increase either through a reduction in temperature or through chemical reactions .
land which is below the freezing point of water .
soil which is below the freezing point of water .
a water surface that is part of a water body .
an ecoregion which is located on a landmass .
a surface layer of a water body which is part of an ocean or sea .
a process in which includes the components of an environmental system as participants .
a process which occurs within an atmosphere .
a biogeochemical process during which one or more chemical compounds are sequentially converted into a series of related compounds in a regularly repeating ,  periodic fashion .
a biogeochemical cycle which has carbon - bearing chemical entities as participants .
a process during which humans apply technology to alter the magnitude ,  duration ,  rate ,  or impact of an environmental process .
an environmental process which is driven by the action of humans .
an action of exogenic processes  ( such as water flow or wind )  which remove environmental material from one part of a planet's crust ,  transporting it to another location where it is deposited .
a process during which chemicals that are involved in natural ecosystem processes are transported or transformed ,  and which impact the activity of biological entities
an environmental process which has water  -  in any of its states  -  as a participant .
a process during which the mass of one or more materials ,  present within a given site ,  increases .
a process during which material is displaced from its original location and transported either to a new location or back to the original location .
a depression which is part of a planetary crust ,  is of geographic scale ,  and is partially or completely enclosed .
sediment which has been transported through the marine water column ,  settling on the seafloor .
a material accumulation process during which solid particles are pulled through a water body by gravitation or centrifugal force and which ends when they settle on a solid surface .
a process during which a portion of some environmental material is converted into a different material or a collection of materials .
a geographic feature which is primarily composed of a continuous mass of snow and / or ice .
a mass of snow .
an environment that is determined by a mouth .
the concentration of a carbon atom when measured in environmental material .
the concentration of a carbon atom when measured in soil .
the concentration of a carbon atom when measured in water .
the concentration of a nitrogen atom when measured in environmental material .
the concentration of a nitrogen atom when measured in soil .
the concentration of a nitrogen atom when measured in water .
the concentration of a chloride when measured in water .
the temperature of some environmental material .
the temperature of some air .
the porosity of some soil .
the concentration of a nitrate when measured in soil .
the composition of some soil .
the structure of some soil .
the temperature of some soil .
the wetness of some soil .
the temperature of some water .
the composition of some water .
the concentration of a oxygen when measured in water .
a biogeochemical cycle which has oxygen as participant .
an environment which is determined by an anatomical entity .
an environment determined by an area or zone of skin tissue .
the concentration of chlorophyll a when measured in water .
the concentration of chlorophyllide a when measured in water .
the concentration of dioxygen when measured in water .
the concentration of methane when measured in water .
the concentration of nitrate when measured in water .
the concentration of chlorophyll when measured in water .
an anatomical structure that forms all or part of a fungus .
a substance ,  usually composed primarily of carbohydrates ,  fats ,  water and / or proteins ,  that can be eaten or drunk by an animal or human being for nutrition or pleasure .
this food product type includes food products which are derived from or produced by a plant .
a food preserved by soaking and storing it in vinegar or brine .
food product that is 1 )  ready or nearly ready for consumption ;  2 )  usually a composite of several foods or ingredients that often belong to distinct product types ;  3 )  usually formulated ,  mixed and partially or fully cooked .
any plant food product which ,  typically ,  is constituted by intact parts from one or more annual plants cultivated as field and garden crops in the open and under glass ,  and used almost exclusively for food .
an alcoholic drink  ( or alcoholic beverage )  is a drink that contains ethanol ,  a type of alcohol produced by fermentation of grains ,  fruits ,  or other sources of sugar .
a meal type is the name of an eating occasion that may have location ,  food type ,  or other customary contextual features .
a process involving the physical transformation of a food source or food product into some derived organic material or food product
the food product by quality class provides descriptors for describing food visually or via other senses ,  which is useful for tasks like food inspection where little prior knowledge of how the food came to be is available .
a liquid prepared for consumption ,  or a product that can be combined with water or milk to make one .
fruits and vegetables in all forms .
food group having common consumption ,  functional or manufacturing characteristics ,  e .g .
a food product type is a class of food products that is differentiated by its food composition ,  processing and / or consumption characteristics .
food and drugs ,  title 21 ,  code of federal regulations .
a multicellular eukaryote organism of the kingdom plantae .
a food source is a plant or animal from which a food product or  component is derived .
extract ,  concentrate or isolate high in sugar ,  oligosaccharide or polysaccharide .
a physical - chemical component separated from the food source or its parts by extraction ,  centrifugation ,  filtration ,  heat processing ,  expressing or a similar process .
a state of matter between a solid and a gas ,  in which a substance has the capacity to flow and conforms to the shape of the container .
used to specifically characterize a food product based on the treatment or processes applied to the product or any indexed ingredient .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the larva over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
a developmental process in which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism specifically contributes to its ability to form offspring .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen ,  a polydisperse ,  highly branched glucan composed of chains of d - glucose residues in alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  glycosidic linkage ,  joined together by alpha -  ( 1 -  > 6 )  glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving starch ,  the most important reserve polysaccharide in plants .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monosaccharides ,  the simplest carbohydrates .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucose ,  the aldohexose gluco - hexose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucans ,  polysaccharides consisting only of glucose residues ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which a cell derives energy from stored compounds such as fats or glycogen .
the anaerobic enzymatic conversion of organic compounds ,  especially carbohydrates ,  coupling the oxidation and reduction of nad / h and the generation of adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism ,  or the directed growth of a cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of animals  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli ,  via a mechanism that involves nervous system activity .
behavior associated with the intake of food .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the enzymatic release of energy from inorganic and organic compounds  ( especially carbohydrates and fats )  which requires oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor .
the enzymatic release of energy from inorganic and organic compounds  ( especially carbohydrates and fats )  which uses compounds other than oxygen  ( e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glucans ,  polysaccharides consisting only of glucose residues .
the set of specific processes that generate the ability of an organism to induce an abnormal ,  generally detrimental state in another organism .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to physical parameters involved in energy generation ,  such as light ,  oxygen ,  and oxidizable substrates .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to environmental oxygen .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the organism over time ,  from the completion of embryonic development to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of photosynthesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
an process which modulate the frequency ,  rate or extent of starch biosynthesis ,  the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of starch .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that modulates the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that decreases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of glucose metabolism .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of glucose metabolism .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of glucan biosynthesis .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which a cell derives energy from inorganic compounds ;  results in the oxidation of the compounds from which energy is released .
the synthesis by organisms of organic chemical compounds ,  especially carbohydrates ,  from carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  using energy obtained from light rather than from the oxidation of chemical compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which a cell derives energy from organic compounds ;  results in the oxidation of the compounds from which energy is released .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
obsolete .a permanent cessation of all vital functions: the end of life ;  can be applied to a whole organism or to a part of an organism .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
behavior directly related to the production of offspring  [ nbo:ac ] 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of starch ,  the most important reserve polysaccharide in plants .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a hexose ,  any monosaccharide with a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which ammonia or ammonium is converted to molecular nitrogen or another nitrogen compound ,  with accompanying loss of electrons .
the oxidation of ammonium  ( nh4 )  to nitrogen  ( n2 )  in the absence of oxygen ,  using nitrite  ( no2 )  as the electron acceptor .
the oxidation of nitrite  ( no2 )  to nitrate  ( no3 )  ,  using oxygen  ( o2 )  as the electron acceptor .
the metabolic process in which ammonia  ( nh3 )  is oxidized to nitrite  ( no2 )  in the presence of oxygen ;  enzymatic reactions convert ammonia to hydrazine ,  and hydrazine to nitrite .
the metabolic process in which carbon monoxide  ( co )  is oxidized to carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  to generate energy .
the oxidation of hydrogen  ( h2 )  to water  ( h2o )  ,  using oxygen  ( o2 )  as the electron acceptor .
an aerobic respiration process in which a sulfur - containing molecule  ( hydrogen sulfide ,  sulfur ,  sulfite ,  thiosulfate ,  and various polythionates )  is oxidized .
a process ,  occurring at the cellular level ,  that is involved in the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by one or two multicellular organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving polysaccharides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of polysaccharides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of polysaccharides ,  polymers of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  carried out by individual cells .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
obsolete .the transfer of information between living organisms .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of another organism .
a form of mutualism between a fungus and the roots of a vascular plant ,  where hyphae of the fungus penetrate the plant cell wall and invaginate its cell membrane .
receiving a signal and transmitting it in the cell to initiate a change in cell activity .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the growth of all or part of an organism so that it occurs at its proper speed ,  either globally or in a specific part of the organism's development .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular respiration ,  the enzymatic release of energy from organic compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fermentation ,  the anaerobic enzymatic conversion of organic compounds ,  especially carbohydrates ,  to other compounds ,  especially to ethyl alcohol ,  resulting in energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and the processes involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the oxidation of arsenite to arsenate ,  using oxygen  ( o2 )  as the electron acceptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of symbiosis ,  an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
any process in which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of enzyme activity in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which the symbiont activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of host enzyme activity .
the process in which a symbiont organism effects a change in the structure or processes of its host organism .
a metabolic process  -  chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances  -  which involves more than one organism .
obsolete .a biosynthetic process  -  chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances  -  which involves more than one organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucans ,  polysaccharides consisting only of glucose residues .
any process in which a symbiont organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell ,  in its host organism .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the increase in size or mass of an organism occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving polysaccharides ,  polymers of more than 10 monosaccharide residues joined by glycosidic linkages ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the function of proteins in a second organism .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the function of proteins in a second organism .
obsolete .any process in which an organism within a multispecies community gains an advantage in growth or survival over another organism of a different species in that community .
a process carried out by gene products in an organism that enable the organism to engage in a symbiotic relationship ,  a more or less intimate association ,  with another organism .
entry of a symbiont into the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of a host organism as part of the symbiont life cycle .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level which involves another organism of the same or different species .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore ,  involving more than one organism .
the enzymatic release of energy from inorganic and organic compounds  ( especially carbohydrates and fats )  which either requires oxygen  ( aerobic respiration )  or does not  ( anaerobic respiration )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
the activity of a gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of post - embryonic development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of post - embryonic development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of post - embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the process ,  occurring above the cellular level ,  that is pertinent to the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ go:0050795 ] 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process ,  occuring in a cell ,  that localizes a substance or cellular component .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the chemical reactions and pathways performed by an organism in its host organism .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within the cell or cells of the host organism .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of host enzyme activity .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the function of a host protein via a direct interaction .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the functional activity of host proteins .
the directed movement of an organism or motile cell on ,  within or near its host organism .
the process in which an organism effects a change in host enzyme activity .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of enzyme activity in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process in which an organism effects a change in enzyme activity in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the functional activity of proteins in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the function of proteins in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the chemical reactions and pathways performed by an organism in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
obsolete .the chemical reactions and pathways performed by an organism in a second organism resulting in the formation of substances ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within the cell or cells of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent to which it enters into the host organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
a metabolic process that results in the removal or addition of one or more electrons to or from a substance ,  with or without the concomitant removal or addition of a proton or protons .
a compound molecular function in which an effector function is controlled by one or more regulatory components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the behavior associated with the intake of food .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
behavior by which an organism locates food .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
the cellular metabolic process in which organic chemical compounds are synthesized from carbon - containing molecules and nutrients using energy obtained from the oxidation of inorganic compounds or methane .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent to which it enters into the host organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
a process carried out by symbiont gene products that enables a symbiotic interaction with a host organism ,  that is beneficial to the host organism .
a molecular function that modulates the activity of a gene product or complex .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fermentation .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular respiration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular respiration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
a localization which involves another organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of foraging behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of foraging behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of foraging behavior .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of aerobic respiration .
any signal transduction that is involved in regulation of aerobic respiration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of photosynthesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of photosynthesis .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular transport in the host organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of multicellular organismal development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of starch metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of starch metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of starch metabolic process .
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
 \ "behavior related to the complex psychophysiological experience of an individual's state of mind as interacting with biochemical  ( internal )  and environmental  ( external )  influences . \ "  [ wikipedia:emotions ] 
 \ "a behavior that occurs predominantly or only ,  in individuals that are part of a group . \ "  [ wikipedia:social_behavior ] 
 \ "behavior related to the interactions between organisms for the purpose of mating . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a behavioral interaction between organisms in which one organism has the intention of inflicting damage on another individual using physical or verbal means . \ "  [ wikipedia:aggression ] 
 \ "behaviour related to the activity which primary purpose is the sexual reproduction . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
male's insertion of sperm - transfer organ into the body of the female  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "the behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of attracting sexual partners . \ "  [ goc:dph ] 
 \ "behavior related to the specific actions or reactions of an organism following mating . \ "  [ goc:bf ] 
 \ "exhibiting a domineering ,  assault posture and / or hostile physical action towards animals . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a helping behavior  ( without expectation of extrinsic rewards and sometimes involving personal risk or sacrifice )  that benefits individuals or society . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "prosocial behavior is caring about the welfare and rights of others ,  feeling concern and empathy for them ,  and acting in ways that benefit others . \ "  [ wikipedia:prosocial_behavior ] 
 \ "helping behavior refers to voluntary actions intended to help the others ,  with reward regarded or disregarded . \ "  [ wikipedia:helping_behavior ] 
 \ "reciprocal altruism is the idea that the incentive for an individual to help in the present is based on the expectation of the potential receipt in the future . \ "  [ wikipedia:helping_behavior ] 
 \ "the action ,  reaction ,  or performance of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ go:go \  \ :0007610 ] 
 \ "behaviour related to the male activity which primary purpose is the sexual reproduction . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behaviour related to the female activity which primary purpose is the sexual reproduction . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "a social behavior related to the activity of conveying information . \ "  [ wikipedia:communication ] 
 \ "communication behavior related to the process of conveying meaning in the form of non - word messages through for example gesture ,  body language or posture ;  facial expression and eye contact etc . \ "  [ wikipedia: .wikipedia .org / wiki / nonverbal_communication ] 
 \ "aggressive behavior related to the defence of a fixed area against intruders ,  typically conspecifics . \ "  [ goc:hjd ] 
 \ "the actions or reactions of a male ,  for the purpose of attracting a sexual partner . \ "  [ goc:bf ] 
 \ "the actions or reactions of a female ,  for the purpose of attracting a sexual partner . \ "  [ goc:bf ] 
 \ "an aggressive behavior towards other members of the society . \ "  [ nbo:rh ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sexual activity ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
deposition of eggs either into the medium ,  or onto a substrate .
facilitating release or transfer of gametes .
active search for possible mates .
behavior by one animals soliciting food provision by a potential mate .
consumption of one member of a mating pair ,  usually the male ,  usually after the mating .
behavior that serves to demonstrate non - aggressive intent by one member of a courting or potentially mating pair to the other .
any of several behaviors directed towards one animal unwilling to mate by another eager to do so .
provision of food to a potential mate
actions resulting in establishment or use of one locale for reproductive activity .
usually interference by members of one sex in the completion of courtship or mating activities by one or more members of the same sex .
behavior associated with refusing courtship or solicitation behaviors by avoidance ,  retreat ,  or other active repulsion of suitor .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to pressure ,  being broken ,  or pierced
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a hardness quality of being rigid and resistant to pressure .
a hardness quality of giving little resistance to pressure .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking branches .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's ability to survive or the long term survival ability of a given population .
a fertility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a fertility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
an optical quality which obtains by virtue of the ability of the bearer to absorb visible light .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being clear ;  not transmitting or reflecting light or radiant energy .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking opacity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to admit the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a porosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of admitting the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a porosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of admitting the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a physical quality of a liquid inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to internal resistance to flow .
a viscosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having viscosity .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably higher than its width .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a temperature which is relatively high .
a temperature which is relatively low .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lack of distinct morphology .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's condition before death .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's decomposition into component parts .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce new life or offspring .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an oblique or slanted direction .
a reproductive quality inhering in the young of an animal by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity characterized by particles arranged such that their shape and volume are relatively stable .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity consisting of particles that have neither a defined volume nor defined shape .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
a mass which is lower than normal or average .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of osmoles of solute per liter of solution .
a osmolarity which is relatively low .
a osmolarity which is relatively high .
an elevation which is relatively high .
an elevation which is relatively low .
a viscosity which relatively high .
a viscosity which relatively low .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing granules .
a viability quality inhering in a population by virtue of some of it's members' ability to survive .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer's being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality that is relatively high .
a wetness quality that is relatively low .
a fertility which is relatively low .
a fertility which is relatively high .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being kept below its freezing point .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of more than one cell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
a quality that inheres in an entire population or part of a population .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing the form of a thin plate sheet or layer .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably lower than its width .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
the propensity of a material to undergo combustion .
an increase in combustibility .
an decrease in combustibility .
an increase in porosity .
an decrease in porosity .
a material entity that consists of two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids .
a collection of organisms ,  all of the same species ,  that live in the same place .
a multi - species collection of organisms of at least two different species ,  living in a particular area .
a quality that inheres in a biological population .
a quality that inheres in a community .
a process that has as primary participant a population .
the number of different species represented in an ecological community .
a process that leads to a change in the number of individuals  ( positive or negative )  in a population .
a population process that leads to an increase in the numbers of individuals in a population following a logistic  ( s - shaped )  curve .
a population growth process that leads to an exponential increase in the number of individuals in a population .
a collection of organisms that has as parts every organism of given species and no organisms of any other species .
a material entity that has as parts two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids of the same species and no members of any other species .
the number of different species that are represented in a given community ,  weighted by their abundance .
a population process that ultimately leads to the death of all individuals in a population .
a process that ultimately leads to the death of all individuals in a population .
a quality of a community that reflects how close in abundance all species in a community are .
a collection of organisms of the same species that has as members only humans .
a collection of organisms of the same species whose members are all either genealogically related to each other or have mated with each other .
a collection of organisms that consists of two or more organisms from at least two species .
a material entity that is one or more organisms ,  viruses or viroids .
a collection of organisms that consists of exactly two organism ,  viruses ,  or viroids that are interacting with each other .
a plant structure  ( po:0005679 )  which is a whole organism .
a floral structure primordium  ( po:0025477 )  that is committed to the development of an ovule  ( po:0020003 )  .
a floral structure primordium  ( po:0025477 )  that is committed to the development of a gynoecium  ( po:0009062 )  .
a shoot axis  ( po:0025029 )  that is the most distal part of a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  and has as parts a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  and the youngest primordia  ( po:0025127 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  which is the organogenic region of the meristem ,  characterized by higher rates of cell division .
a portion of reproductive shoot apical meristem tissue  ( po:0008028 )  that gives rise to the floral organs  ( po:0025395 )  .
a native plant cell  ( po:0025606 )  synthesizing protoplasm and producing new cells by division and with only a primary cell wall .
a primordium  ( po:0025127 )  that develops from a root anlagen  ( po:0025433 )  and is committed to the development of a root  ( po:0009005 )  .
a lateral plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  produced by a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is part of a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is the outer layer of an apical meristem  ( po:0020144 )  ,  or the outer layer of a plant embryo proper  ( po:0000001 )  ,  and gives rise to a portion of epidermis  ( po:0005679 )  .
a plant structure development stage  ( po:0009012 )  that has as primary participant a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  .
a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  that gives rise to the apical growth of reproductive tissues and organs .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that develops from a gynoecium  ( po:0009062 )  ,  or a single carpel  ( po:0009030 )  ,  and at maturity may have as parts one or more seeds  ( po:0009010 )  .
a cell which is a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  .
a plant axis  ( po:0025004 )  that lacks shoot axis nodes  ( po:0005004 )  and usually grows indeterminately .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that produces shoot - borne portions of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  and the plant structures  ( po:0009011 )  that arise from them .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that consists predominantly of similarly specialized plant cells  ( po:0009002 )  of one or more types .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that is a functional unit ,  is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  and includes portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types that derive from a common developmental path .
a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  that participates in the plant embryo stage  ( po:0007631 )  .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that develops from a plant ovule  ( po:0020003 )  and has as parts a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  enclosed in a seed coat  ( po:0009088 )  .
a plant anatomical entity  ( po:0025131 )  that is ,  or was ,  part of a plant ,  or was derived from a part of a plant .
a stage in the life of a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  during which the plant structure undergoes developmental processes .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  in which plant cells  ( po:0009002 )  have retained their embryonic characteristics ,  or have reverted to them secondarily ,  and that divide to produce new cells that can undergo differentiation to form mature tissues ,  i .e .
a determinate reproductive shoot system  ( po:0025082 )  that has as part at least one carpel  ( po:0009030 )  or at least one stamen  ( po:0009029 )  and does not contain any other determinate shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  as a part .
a collective phyllome structure  ( po:0025023 )  composed all of the carpels  ( po:0009030 )  in a flower  ( po:0009046 )  .
a plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  that has as parts a nucellus  ( po:0020020 )  in which a female gametophyte  ( po:0025279 )  is located ,  one or two integuments  ( po:0020021 )  ,  and a funicle  ( po:0020006 )  .
a maximal portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  located at a shoot apex  ( po:0000037 )  or root tip  ( po:0000025 )  .
a shoot system meristem  ( po:0006079 )  formed at the apex of the shoot axis  ( po:0025029 )  ,  including those originating from an axillary bud meristem  ( po:0000232 )  .
an axial plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  .
a collective plant structure  ( po:0025497 )  that is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  and is composed of two or more adjacent plant organs  ( po:0009008 )  and the associated portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that consists of two or more phyllomes  ( po:0006001 )  originating from the same node or from one or more adjacent nodes with compressed shoot internodes  ( po:0005005 )  .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that produces root meristems  ( po:0006085 )  ,  the plant structures  ( po:0009011 )  that arise from them and the parts thereof .
a native plant cell  ( po:0025606 )  that is part of a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  .
a plant axis  ( po:0025004 )  that is part of a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  .
a phyllome  ( po:0006001 )  that is not associated with a reproductive structure .
a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  in the sporophytic phase that has as part at least one sporangium  ( po:0025094 )  .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that is part of an plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
a primordium  ( po:0025127 )  that develops from a phyllome anlagen  ( po:0025430 )  and is part of a shoot apex  ( po:0000037 )  and is committed to the development of a phyllome  ( po:0006001 )  .
an anatomical entity that is or was part of a plant .
a shoot apex that has as part a reproductive shoot apical meristem .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  that is part of a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  .
a maximal whole plant development stage .
a plant structure development stage  ( po:0009012 )  that has as primary participant a collective plant structure  ( po:0025497 )  .
a plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  that is part of a flower  ( po:0009046 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is part of a peripheral zone  ( po:0000225 )  of a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  and will give rise to a phyllome primordium  ( po:0025128 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is committed to the development of a root primordium  ( po:0005029 )  .
a primordium  ( po:0025127 )  that is committed to the development of a floral organ  ( po:0025395 )  and is part of a reproductive shoot apex  ( po:0025222 )  .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that has as parts two or more portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single structural unit demarcated by primarily bona - fide boundaries from other structural units of different types .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  and includes two or more adjacent plant organs  ( po:0009008 )  or adjacent cardinal organ parts  ( po:0025001 )  ,  along with any associated portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  .
a collective plant organ structure development stage  ( po:0025338 )  that begins with the onset of the plant organ development stage  ( po:0025339 )  and ends with either gametophyte senescent stage  ( po:0025343 )  or sporophyte senescent stage  ( po:0007017 )  or death .
a shoot system development stage  ( po:0025527 )  that has as primary participant a reproductive shoot system  ( po:0025082 )  .
a plant cell  ( po:0009002 )  that is either part of a multicellular whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  'in vivo' or a unicellular organism 'in natura'  ( i .e .
a whole plant development stage  ( po:0007033 )  that has as primary participant a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  during the interval between fertilization  ( or apogamy )  and death .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
a layer of dense irregular connective tissue that lines organs and supports the mucosa ,  as well as joins the mucosa to the bulk of underlying smooth muscle .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
an organ of sight that includes the camera - type eyeball and supporting structures such as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the conjunctiva ,  the eyelid .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer  ( mesothelium )  and a connective tissue layer .
an eye with one concave chamber .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
a tubular structure that transports secreted or excreted substances .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a part of an organ that constitutes a distinct modular sub - unit .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
anatomical structure that is part of the respiratory system .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
a distinct juvenile stage many animals undergo before metamorphosis into adults .
end of the life of an organism .
an section of a respiratory tract .
any part or collection of parts of the central or peripheral nervous system .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements and articular elements that are part of an individual subdivision of the organism .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
the lung vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs [ go ]  .
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
the stage of being a sexually mature adult animal .
the connective tissue located between the respiratory  ( airway and alveolar )  epithelium ,  the capillary endothelium and pleural mesothelium ;  it contains basement membrane composed of collagen ,  elastin ,  proteoglycans ,  and fibronectin
the epithelial layer of the lung .
a tube in the respiratory system .
structure derived from foregut that becomes a lung [ go ]  .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism )  [ fma , modified ]  .
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
the pair of anatomical structures comprised of a left lung and right lung .
organ that functions in gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
the wall of the digestive tract .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
a mucosa that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory airway .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
tissue that surrounds the lens nucleus
the core of the crystalline lens ,  surrounded by the cortex .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are serous secreting cells .
an anatomical wall that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
unilaminar epithelium which consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
anterior part of the embryonic digestive tract that develops into a mouth .
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
the retina is the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an organ that detects light .
an organism subdivision that extends from the head to the pectoral girdle ,  encompassing the cervical vertebral column .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
an airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
a portion of the respiratory and digestive tracts ;  its distal limit is the superior part of the esophagus and it connects the nasal and oral cavities with the esophagus and larynx ;  it contains the valleculae and the pyriform recesses ;  its upper limits are the nasal cavity and cranial base .
in the developing vertebrate ,  the neural tube is the embryo's precursor to the central nervous system ,  which comprises the brain and spinal cord .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a zone of skin that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to to the throat ,  neck glands ,  tongue ,  face ,  mouth ,  ear ,  scalp and dura mater of the meninges [ mp ] 
it ascends beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius ,  distributing branches to it ,  and to the neighboring muscles and lymph glands in the neck ,  and anastomosing with the superficial branch of the descending branch of the occipital artery .
a zone of skin that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
joint fluid is a transudate of plasma that is actively secreted by synovial cells .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
simple squamous epithelium of mesodermal origin which lines serous membranes .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
a zone of skin that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
a subdivision of the head that has as parts the layers deep to the surface of the anterior surface ,  including the mouth ,  eyes ,  and nose  ( when present )  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an articular capsule  ( or joint capsule )  is an envelope surrounding a synovial joint .
a bilaterally paired branched artery that originates from the aortic arches and divides into and includes as parts the internal and external carotid arteries [ cjm ]  .
a tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
one of two jugular veins that collect the blood from the brain ,  the superficial parts of the face ,  and the neck .
the ciliary muscle is a ring of smooth muscle in the middle layer of the eye that controls the eye's accommodation for viewing objects at varying distances and regulates the flow of aqueous humour through schlemm's canal .
a branch of the external carotid artery that supplies structures of the face .
an artery that supplies deep structures of the face .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
an epithelial tube or tree of tibes that transports blood away from the heart [ modified from aeo definition ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the right lung .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the left lung .
the anterior facial vein  ( facial vein )  commences at the side of the root of the nose ,  and is a direct continuation of the angular vein where it also receives a small nasal branch .
subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons .
subdivision of head that consists of the lower jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pharynx .
the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens
the pigmented middle of the three concentric layers that make up an eye ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body and choroid [ wp , edited ]  .
the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye
the smooth stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea
opaque fibrous outer layer of the eyeball [ zfa , kardong , wp ]  .
the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris ,  composed of ciliary muscle and ciliary processes
vascular layer containing connective tissue ,  of the eye lying between the retina and the sclera .
a double layer covering the ciliary body that produces aqueous humor .
any of the layers that make up the retina [ mp ]  .
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
any of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive ) 
any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive ) 
a layer of epithelial cells that is part of the eye .
the elastic ,  clear ,  membrane - like structure ,  that is outer most layer of the lens
one of the two fleshy folds which surround the opening of the mouth .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
the midbrain is the middle division of the three primary divisions of the developing chordate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain  ( in vertebrates ,  includes a ventral part containing the cerebral peduncles and a dorsal tectum containing the corpora quadrigemina and that surrounds the aqueduct of sylvius connecting the third and fourth ventricles )  [ go ]  .
a segment of the developing hindbrain [ zfa ]  .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures [ fma ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a capillary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vein  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
ventral part of the midbrain ,  separated from the hindbrain by the isthmus [ isbn:0471888893 ]  .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a spinal cord .
the liquid component of blood ,  in which erythrocytes are suspended .
one of the minute vessels that collect deoxygenated blood from the capillary plexuses returns it to the veins
the smallest division of the artery located between the muscular arteries and the capillaries [ go ]  .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
a monolayer of specialized ,  flattened ,  mitochondria - rich cells that lines the posterior surface of the cornea and faces the anterior chamber of the eye [ wp ]  .
a layer of epithelium that lines the heart ,  blood vessels  ( endothelium ,  vascular )  ,  lymph vessels  ( endothelium ,  lymphatic )  ,  and the serous cavities of the body [ mesh ]  .
an artery that carries deoxygenated blood from heart to the lungs .
pulmonary veins are blood vessels that transport blood from the lungs to the heart [ go ]  .
a nervous system structure composed primarily of nerve cell bodies  ( somas )  .
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
a systemic artery that supplies the lung with with oxygenated blood .
respiration organ that develops as an oupocketing of the esophagus .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
the truncus arteriosus and bulbus cordis are divided by the aorticopulmonary septum .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
an organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
the postcranial subdivision of skeleton structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins ;  in human consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis [ zfa + fma ]  .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the thin membranous structure between the two heart atria or the thick muscular structure between the two heart ventricles .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the endocardium is an anatomical structure comprised of an endothelium and an extracellular matrix that forms the innermost layer of tissue of the heart ,  and lines the heart chambers [ go ]  .
lung which consists of the right upper lobe ,  middle lobe and right lower lobe .
lung which consists of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe .
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
anatomical cluster consisting of the hematopoietic system and the lymphoid system ,  or its analogs .
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by an articular capsule which encloses a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
the part of the coelemic cavity lumen that is enclosed by the walls of the thorax .
part of the central nervous system located in the vertebral canal continuous with and caudal to the brain ;  demarcated from brain by plane of foramen magnum .
stalk - like part of the brain that includes amongst its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain [ zfa , mp , generalized ]  .
the ridge - shaped grey matter of the spinal cord that extends longitudunally through the center of each half of the spinal cord ,  and are largely or entirely composed of nerve cell bodies and their dendrites and some supportive tissue .
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
a flexible rod - shaped body found in embryos of all chordates .
somites are spheres of epithelial cells that form sequentially along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo through mesenchymal to epithelial transition of the presomitic mesoderm .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce exocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
an arterial trunk which is continuous with the heart and branches into the pulmonary arteries .
a specialized region of ectoderm found between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm and composed of highly migratory pluripotent cells that delaminate in early embryonic development from the dorsal neural tube and give rise to an astounding variety of differentiated cell types [ mp ]  .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
anatomical system that is involved in the production of hematopoietic cells .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
a gland that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of the mouth and lines the oral cavity ,  typically stratified squamous ,  and may be para -  ,  ortho -  or non -  keratinized .
a blood vessel that is part of a choroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
arteries that supply the spinal cord .
an epithelium that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
connective tissue composed of elastic fibers .
the middle layer of an artery or vein .
the innermost layer of a blood vessel which is a lining of endothelial cells facing the lumen [ kardong ]  .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
one of a series of paired bulges that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
a distinct juvenile form many animals undergo before metamorphosis into adults .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
anatomical divisons of the brain according to one or more criteria ,  e .g .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
a temporary epithelium that derives from the outer layer of the ectdoerm and is shed once the inner layer differentiates to form a true epidermis .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
blood islands are structures in the developing embryo which lead to many different parts of the circulatory system .
a horseshoe - shaped thickening of the endoderm at the cranial  ( rostral )  end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells which ,  together with the notochord ,  induces the formation of the neural plate from the overlying ectodermal cells and contributes mesodermal type cells to the surrounding tissue
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye [ zfa ]  .
a thickened portion of ectoderm which serves as the precursor to the lens .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
the paraxial mesoderm is the mesoderm located bilaterally adjacent to the notochord and neural tube [ go ] 
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardical precursors laterally .
ventral somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton [ xao ]  .
neural crest cells  ( nccs )  originating in the anterior part of the developing embryo and residing between the mid - diencephalon and the forming hindbrain ;  cranial nccs migrate dorsolaterally to form the craniofacial mesenchyme that differentiates into various craniofacial cartilages and bones ,  cranial neurons ,  glia ,  and connective tissues of the face ;  these cells enter the pharyngeal pouches and arches where they give rise to thymic cells ,  bones of the middle ear and jaw  ( mandible )  ,  and the odontoblasts of the tooth primordia ;  like their counterparts in the trunk ,  cranial nccs also contribute to the developing peripheral nervous system ,  along with the pigmented cell  ( i .e .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
portion of tissue consisting of loosely organized undifferentiated mesodermal cells that give rise to such structures as connective tissues ,  blood ,  lymphatics ,  bone ,  and cartilage [ xao ]  .
the 6th pharyngeal arch .contributes to the development of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles
the vessels formed within the first pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the sixth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible  ( when present in the organism )  .
anatomical structure that is part of the head consisting entirely of cranium and mandible [ wp ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the lower part of the mouth .
a gland that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
racemose mucous glands beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
a gland that is part of a integumental system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood island that is part of a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
an epithelium that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an adipose tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the iinferior labial artery  ( inferior labial branch of facial artery )  arises near the angle of the mouth ;  it passes upward and forward beneath the triangularis and ,  penetrating the orbicularis oris ,  runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane .
an artery that is part of a thoracic cavity [ cjm ]  .
a vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the lower lip .
a vein that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a venule that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arteriole that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a cornea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of the arterial system .
a blood vessel that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skin gland that is part of a camera - type eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the type of heart connective tissue found in the endocardial layer that consists mainly of elastic fibers .
an elastic tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a circulatory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
elastic tissue layer that lines a blood vessel layer .
elastic tissue that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
portion of tissue in the nervous system which consists of neurons and glial cells ,  and may also contain parts of the vasculature .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
any muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a neural tube .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a midbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a hindbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a spinal cord .
a neural plate that develops_from a future spinal cord .
an anatomical cavity that has the potential to develop into a coelemic cavity lumen .
the part of the coelom in the embryo between the somatopleuric and splanchnopleuric mesoderm ;  the principal body cavities of the trunk  ( thoracic ,  abdominal ,  and pelvic )  arise from this embryonic part of the coelom
the part of the retina that contains neurons and photoreceptor cells [ go ]  .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues ,  with tube shape and organization varying from the single - celled excretory organ in caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system .
any endothelium that has the quality of being cylindrical  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart
a duct that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines the lumen of the digestive tract .
the slender connective tissue fiber in the extracellular matrix of skin tissue that is composed of microfibrils and amorphous elastin and is characterized by great elasticity
the connection between the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
the single layer of epithelial cells that lines the early neural tube and develops into the nervous system and into the neural crest cells
the layer of undifferentiated ,  proliferating cells that line the neural tube lumen that is the immediate transformation of the germinal neuroepithelium
the layer of glia and differentiating neurons that forms as a second layer around the germinal neuroepithium ;  as this develops it comes to lie between the ventricular and marginal layers and includes the basal and alar plates .
the outermost layer of the neural tube that consists of axons from the developing mantle layer and will form the white matter
the subdivision of the face that includes the eye  ( eyeball plus adnexa such as eyelids )  and the orbit of the skull and associated parts of the face such as the eyebrows ,  if present
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
a vasculature that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
the optic vesicle is the evagination of neurectoderm that precedes formation of the optic cup [ go ]  .
the first recognizable structure derived from the heart field
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the primary beating heart tube .
an epithelial tube that will give rise to the mature heart .
the outflow tract septum is a partition in the outflow tract
the outflow tract is the portion of the heart through which blood flows into the arteries
a cardiac chamber surrounds an enclosed cavity within the heart
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
a portions of the gut that is derived from endoderm .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is part of the eye region .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a cone - like structure that is formed when myocardial progenitor cells of the heart field fuse at the midline .
a blood vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the embryonic structure that gives rise to the corneal ectoderm
the first of the series of pharyngeal arches that develop into jaw bones or their homologs ,  and their associated nerves and arteries
one of a series of paired embryological vascular structures formed within a pharyngeal arch ;  in the adult ,  some of these vessels give rise to the great vessels [ mp ] 
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer ,  6 to 9 um thick ,  lying between the basal lamina of the outer layer of stratified epithelium and the substantia propria of the cornea ;  it is considered to be a basement membrane .
an embryo at the neurula stage .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
any collection of skeletal muscles that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a face .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
a vascular network consisting of blood vessels .
an eye that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the arterial system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all arteries .
an artery of the systemic circulation ,  which is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart ,  to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the venous system that drains the general body tissues [ kardong ] 
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all venous vessels .
an endothelium that lines the blood vasculature .
the costocervical trunk arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery ,  behind the scalenus anterior on the right side ,  and medial to that muscle on the left side .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the jugular veins are veins that bring deoxygenated blood from the head back to the heart via the superior vena cava .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
a transverse unitary subdivision of the neural tube that shares a common dorsoventral structure  ( floor ,  basal ,  alar ,  and roof plates )  ,  but each having differential molecular identities and fates ;  they comprise the secondary prosencephalon ,  diencephalon  ( prosomeres )  ,  the midbrain  ( mesomeres )  ,  and the hindbrain  ( rhombomeres )  .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
an organ subunit that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism at the gastrula stage .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
a submucosa that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract
any of the tissue layers that comprise a blood vessel .
the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of the cardiovascular system .
a gland that is part of a eye .
a vasculature that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the inner  ( or splanchnic )  layer adheres to the endoderm ,  and with it forms the splanchnopleure [ wp ]  .
the central region of trunk mesoderm .
the mass of tissue made up of mesenchymal cells in the lung .
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the pharynx .
a mucosa that is part of a lower lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a hemolymphoid system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a hindbrain and adjacent_to a spinal cord .
a hole in a tube [ go ]  .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
a bud is a protrusion that forms from an epithelial sheet by localized folding .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
an organ or element that part of the dorsum of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
a vein that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a stomodeum .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
the posterior part of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the medulla oblongata and a portion of the fourth ventricle ;  as well as the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cn ix )  ,  vagus nerve  ( cn x )  ,  accessory nerve  ( cn xi )  ,  hypoglossal nerve  ( cn xii )  ,  and a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cn viii )  .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
the endothelial lining of the endocardium .
an pulmonary artery endothelium is an epithelium that lines the pulmonary artery [ go ]  .
an array of photoreceptors and any supporting cells found in an eye .
a transparent structure that is part of a visual sense organ ,  the function of which is to direct or focus light onto a photoreceptor array .
one of: the common carotid artery ,  or its branches ,  the external and internal carotid arteries .
portion of tissue that is the inner layer of the optic cup and will become the neural retina .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
portion of tissue that is part of the eye and gives rise to the mature ,  fully layered cornea .
the dilated structure that is lined by endothelial cells and located at the arterial pole of the heart just above  ( distal to )  the truncus arteriosus in mammalian embryos ;  it is the primordial vascular channel from which the aortic arches  ( and eventually the dorsal aortae )  arise ;  the aortic sac is homologous to the ventral aorta of gill - bearing vertebrates
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
a neural tube lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere .
a pair of lateral diverticula just over the liver rudiment representing the primordia of the lungs ,  formed by the floor of the foregut just anterior to the liver diverticulum .
a somite that is part of a trunk .
a layer of cuboidal epithelial cells bounded anteriorly by the capsule of the lens and posteriorly by the lens cortex .
an epithelium that is part of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelium that is part of a lens vesicle .
an endothelium that is part of a right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a left lung .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lens vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a optic eminence .
a venous system that is part of a hindbrain .
the outermost layer of a blood vessel ,  composed mainly of fibrous tissue .
a tunica intima that is part of a artery .
an outermost connective tissue covering of an organ ,  vessel ,  or other structure [ wp ]  .
a acellular anatomical structure that is the bounding layer of a anatomical structure .
an acellular membrane that is part of the epithelium ,  lies adjacent to the epithelial cells ,  and is the fusion of the the basal lamina and the reticular lamina .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
the paired ventral prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo ;  the two prominences unite ventrally and fuse to form the mandible and lower lip
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of cranial skeleton ,  set of all vertebrae ,  set of all ribs and sternum [ fma ,  modified ]  .
the laminar structure of the heart
any of the arteries or veins that supply blood to the heart or return blood from the heart muscles to the circulation
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
the notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down .
a midline cellular cord formed from the migration of mesenchymal cells from the primitive knot
a segment of the eyeball that is filled with refractive media
body substance in a liquid or semi - solid state in the eyeball which serves to refract light .
liquid components of living organisms .
an artery that connects two larger arteries .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a zone of skin .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
the pharynx is the part of the digestive system immediately posterior to the mouth [ go ]  .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into endoderm .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into mesoderm .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a epithelium .
the edge of the cornea where it joins the sclera ;  the limbus is a common site for the occurrence of corneal epithelial neoplasm
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular prominence .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a digestive tract .
an epithelium that is part of a lip .
an epithelium characterised by its most superficial layer consisting of squamous epithelial cells .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
a capillary that is part of the coronary system .
a two dimensional anatomical structure that is the boundary between an anatomical structure and an anatomical substance ,  an anatomical space or the organism's environment .
the splanchnic mesoderm in the cardiogenic region where the heart develops ;  it gives rise to endocardial heart tubes that fuse to form the primordial cardiac tube ,  the heart primordium [ web ]  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
a multicellular organism that is at the juvenile stage .
a multicellular organism that existence_ends_with a post - juvenile adult stage and existence_starts_with a post - juvenile adult stage .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  keeps up the circulation of the blood or analogs [ go , modified ]  .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
multicellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
a tunica media that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a vein .
a tunica intima that is part of a vein .
a tunica media that is part of a vein .
the rhombencephalon  ( or hindbrain )  is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a endocardium .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a presomitic mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a neural plate .
the part of the blastula that has the potential to develop into a paraxial mesoderm .
a vasculature that is part of a chordate pharynx .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer of an animal ,  it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material  ( e .g .
portion of the dermis characterized by a well - arranged ,  plywood - like ,  collagenous network .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
the space within an epithelial sphere .
an epithelial tube that is open at one end only .
an epithelial tube open at both ends that allows fluid flow .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
epithelium bearing vibratile cilia on the free surface .
a thin ,  loose vascular connective tissue that makes up the membranes surrounding joints and the sheaths protecting tendons  ( particularly flexor tendons in the hands and feet )  where they pass over bony prominences .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a synovial joint .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
a gland that is part of a epidermis .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
any fluid produced by a serous gland .
anatomical system that consists of all blood and lymph vessels .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
an endothelium that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a transient embryonic complex that comprises the pharyngeal arches ,  bulges of tissues of mesoderm and neural crest derivation through which pass nerves and pharyngeal arch arteries .
a head that is part of a embryo .
a brain that develops_from a neural tube .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all pulmonary arteries and all pulmonary veins .
subdivision of endoskeleton derived from pharyngeal arches
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
vein that drains left lung and returns blood to the heart .
vein that drains right lung and returns blood to the heart .
an organism containing a developing embryo ,  fetus ,  or unborn offspring within the body .
a vein that is part of a craniocervical region .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
an endoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
a portion of mesenchymal tissue associated with an individual pharyngeal arch .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch mandibular component .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing left lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing right lung .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive midbrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive hindbrain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a midbrain .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a stomodeum .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing cardiac structures
the many - lobed berry cluster of cells that is the terminous of a gland where the secretion is produced is acinar in form .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing face .
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_with a post - embryonic stage .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
the sum total of mesenchymal tissue in the pharyngeal arch region .
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
an epithelium consisting of cuboidal epithelial cells .
mesenchyme that has the potential to develop into a dermis .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a myelencephalon .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a blood vessel .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
an anatomical boundary that corresponds to some physical discontinuity .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a rhombencephalon neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
portion of neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain .
an endothelium that is part of a sclera .
mesenchyme surrounding the developing optic cup which develops into the sclera .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
developing anatomical structure that develops into the eyeball and associated structures .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that is part of a orbital region .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
mesenchyme that develops_from a splanchnopleure .
the integrated unit  ( of the eye )  that consists of the conjunctiva ,  the corneal surface ,  and the ocular mucosal adnexa including the lid margins and the meibomian gland openings ,  the lacrimal glands and the lacrimal drainage system ,  all which are critical to maintain ocular surface integrity and provide protection from external antigens and pathogenic microorganisms .
the ciliary processes are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid ,  i .e .
a simple columnar epithelium that looks stratified but is not ,  because its cells are arranged with their nuclei at different levels .
epithelium composed of a single layer of cells ,  appearing as layered because the column - shaped cells vary in height so the nuclei are at different levels .
a vessel of the microcirculature ,  lying between the arterioles and venules ;  includes capillaries  ( blood and lymphatic )  ,  metarterioles and arteriovenous anastomoses .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements  ( i .e .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the postcranial axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of skull that consists of the facial bones .
the skull can be divided into two: the neurocranium and the facial skeleton
a multi cell part structure that is part of a central nervous system .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
the part of the trunk that is in the dorsum [ cjm ]  .
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
a subdivision of the head that corresponds to the jaw skeleton ,  containing both soft tissue ,  skeleton and teeth  ( when present )  .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense connective tissue is mainly composed of collagen type i .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
an acinus that is part of a exocrine gland .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of pulmonary tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
front  ( ventral )  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
the aggregate of the coelemic cavity lumen plus the membranes that line the lumen .
anatomical system that consists of the integumental system plus all mucosae and submucosae .
a zone of skin that is part of a craniocervical region .
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
one of five swellings formed during the development of the face
an artery of the neck
the deep cervical artery  ( profunda cervicalis )  is an artery of the neck .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system venous blood vessel .
the sclera and cornea form the fibrous tunic of the bulb of the eye ;  the sclera is opaque ,  and constitutes the posterior five - sixths of the tunic ;  the cornea is transparent ,  and forms the anterior sixth .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
a vein that drains a lip .
any vein within the general circulation that transports blood back to the right atrium of the heart .
the secretory unit of a serous gland .
anatomical cavity that is the lumen of the skull and contains the brain .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the space that surrounds an organism .
an anatomical space which is the lumen of some anatomical conduit and connects two or more spaces together [ fma , modified ]  .
vascular endothelium found in blood vessels of the blood - brain - barrier .
musculature of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the primary axis ,  typically the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
a tubular passage that extends from the primitive pit into the head process during the early stages of embryonic development in mammals .
fluid contained within the notochordal canal
a organ component layer that is part of a integumental system .
a blood that is part of a artery .
a blood that is part of a vein .
a blood that is part of a capillary .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
great vessels is a term used to refer collectively to the large vessels that bring blood to and from the heart .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all skeletal elements in the thoracic region of the trunk .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive midbrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive spinal cord
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
a gland that is typically found in or near the orbital region ,  in or around either the medial or lateral canthi ,  and is typically associated with secretions onto the eyeball or associated ducts .
an eye consisting of multiple light - sensing organs
a region of somite adjacent to presomitic mesoderm .
epithelium located in the intersomitic region .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  contributes to the circulation of lymph ,  blood or analogs .
a basement membrane of epithelium that is part of a respiratory system .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a epithelium that is part of a foregut .
a capillary that is part of a lung .
the external part of the developing pharynx that is made of ectoderm .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is part of gray matter .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower lip .
a boundary delimiting a rhombomere .
any portion of submucosa that lines the digestive tract .
any organ component layer that consists of muscle tissue .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
the part of the eye that consists of both the retina and the optic choroid
an exocrine gland that is part of a integumental system .
single layer of a laminar structure ,  identified by different density ,  arrangement or size of cells and processes arranged in flattened layers or lamina [ cumbo ]  .
serous membrane layer that is adjacent to and lines an organ .
serous membrane layer that lines to a body cavity .
a specific region of the foregut into the area in which the lung will develop .
an embryonic or larval epithelium that is committed to form part of the nervous system .
an epithelium that is undergoing proliferation to provide large numbers of neuronal cells .
a neuroepithelium some of whose cells are undergoing terminal differentiation to become neuronal cells .
any substance in the body or expelled from the body that is in a gaseous state .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system that is composed primarily of air .
the area of axial mesoderm that develops into the prechordal plate
an multicellular anatomical structure that has subparts of multiple organs as a part .
a cluster of cells ,  largely surrounded by a morphological boundary .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
any organ component layer that consists of smooth muscle tissue .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any material entity that is located in the digestive tract .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of the whole body .
the part of the circulatory system that lies within the subcutaneous tissue layers close to the surface of the skin .
any of the veins carrying deoxygenated blood from the subcutaneous tissue layers .
the part of the circulatory system that lies deep beneath the subcutaneous tissue layers away from the surface of the skin .
a blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood far beneath the skin usually accompanying an artery .
any chamber of the left side of the heart
any chamber of the right side of the heart
the parts of the orbital region that are outside of the the eyeball ,  including the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva
the primordial mouth region of the developing head .
the sum of epicardial and paracardial fat deposits .
any fat deposit surrounding a visceral organ .
an region of the mesoderm that includes anterior lateral mesoderm of the first heart field plus contiguous pharyngeal mesoderm that gives rise to second - heart - field - derived regions of the heart and branchiomeric muscles .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
a bodily fluid that is located in the coelom .
any gland that is part os the respiratory system .
a notochord that has persisted beyond the embryonic stage .
a transudate found in the serous sac .
a mucosa that is part of a lip region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of the face .
structures of the dermis ,  epidermis ,  glands and pigment cells recognizable on the external surfaces of the integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the external head integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the body integument .
blood vessels in respiratory skin .
any head that is part of some larva .
any sense organ that is part of some larva .
any sense organ  ( uberon:6005155 )  that is part of some larval head  ( uberon:6001730 )  .
a heterotroph that consumes plant and animal matter either in whole or in part via ingestion through a type of  \ "mouth \ " .
x ventral_to y iff x is further along the dorso - ventral axis than y ,  towards the front .
any nutrient required in large quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  acceptor .
self - ionizing solvent possessing both characteristics of bronsted acids and bases .
a process during which a living entity acquires or generates food and energy from a living ,  dead ,  or non - living entity .
an anaerobe that makes atp by aerobic respiration if oxygen is present ,  but is capable of switching to fermentation if oxygen is absent .
an anaerobe that cannot grow in the presence of oxygen
an aerobe that requires oxygen to grow
an aerobe that can grow at oxygen levels lower than what is present in the atmosphere
an anaerobe that can tolerate low levels of oxygen
a material entity that has been processed by humans or their technology in any way ,  including intermediate products as well as final products .
anthropogenic material in or on which organisms may live .
a material entity which is composed of a volume of unbound positive and negative particles in roughly equal numbers ,  conducts electricity ,  and possesses internal magnetic fields .
a planned process during which raw or recycled materials are transformed into products for use or sale using labour and machines ,  tools ,  chemical and biological processing ,  or formulation .
an object which is composed primarily of an environmental material
an object which is composed primarily of a solid environmental material
an object which is composed primarily of a fluid .
an object which is composed primarily of a gas .
an object which is composed primarily of a liquid .
an mass of environmental materials which has appreciable quantities of several individual materials ,  such that the removal of one would convert the mass into a different entity .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous medium bearing liquid ,  gaseous ,  and solid material in varying quantities .
an environmental process either driven by or primarily impacting the parts or emergent properties of an ecosystem .
an object which is formed as a result of one or more biological processes and is composed primarily of organic material .
a liquid or a gas .
a process carried out by gene products in an organism that enable the organism to engage in a symbiotic relationship ,  a more or less intimate association ,  with another organism .
any process evolved to enable an interaction with an organism of a different species .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
"a feeding behavior associated with the intake or the frequency of intake or preference or manner of intake of food ."
"a feeding behavior associated with the intake or the frequency of intake or preference or manner of intake of liquids ."
"behavior related to defence against predation or predators ."
"behavior related to the preparation of the body to  \ "fight \ " or  \ "flee \ " from perceived attack ,  harm or threat ."
"a physical aggression behavior involving attack on prey by a predator ."
"an aggressive behavior that aims to inflicting damage on another entity using physical means ."
any behavior that tends to prevent further or future attack ,  often by signalling a willingness to yield or surrender  [ nbo:ac ] 
behavior by which an animal removes itself spatially from an agonistic encounter in which it is not the winner  [ nbo:ac ] 
"behavior characterized by a quick excitability to annoyance ,  impatience ,  or anger ."
"a behavior associated with the intake of liquid ."
"a feeding behavior associated with the intake of food ."
"behavior related to the tendency of an organism to maintain internal equilibrium ."
"behavior related to the deprivation of food ."
behavior that facilitates the restoration of normal interactions between parties that recently engaged in a conflict .
"behavior related to how the body reacts to a stressor  (  a stimulus that causes stress )  ,  real or imagined ."
"behavior related to the identification or realization of a threat or a stressor ."
"behavior related to the activity seen in animals exposed to adverse stimuli ,  in which the tendency to act defensively is stronger than the tendency to attack ."
"behavior related to the activity seen in animals exposed to potential danger in which they exhibit the tendency to act defensively ."
"behavior related to the intake of substances ."
"any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of consumption behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli ."
a predator behavior involving actively stalking prey over a distance .
a predator behavior involving a surprise attack on unsuspecting prey .
a predator behavior involving subduing prey using a structure or modification of the environment created by the predator for that purpose .
feeding behavior during which a living entity acquires food and energy by actively searching for food resources .
behavior in which one animal causes the death of another .
agonistic behavior involving direct physical contact including  ( but not limited to )  biting ,  kicking ,  grabbing .
forcible alteration of behavior of one animal by another .
a behavior on the part of one individual associated with evaluating the fighting ability or correlates of fighting ability of a potential opponent .
behavior that signifies hostility and predicts an increased probability of attack .
behavior in which one animal causes bodily damage to another .
carrying or manipulation of infants or equivalent items to reduce chances of aggression on carrier by other animals .
chasing of one animal by another during an agonistic conflict .
alarm behavior triggered by agonistic actions or postures .
increasing intensity of directed agonistic behavior .
behavior that serves to exlude an animal from a group .
display behavior by the winner of a prior agonistic contest .
an acitvity that seems irrelevant to its behavioral context to a human observer and often occurs when its performer is in a conflict situation .
behaviors that appear to signifiy lack of hostility and to reduce chances of attack .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
a collection of organisms that has as members every organism of a taxon and no organisms of any other equal or higher ranked taxon .
a pair of interacting  organisms that consists of exactly two organism ,  viruses ,  or viroids of the same species that are interacting with each other .
a thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the mucosa [ wp ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory airway .
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
a potential space between the visceral and parietal layers of the pericardium .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
an epicardial layer that lines a cardiac ventricle
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
muscle tissue composed of cardiac muscle cells ,  forming the muscles of the heart [ zfa , modified ]  .
muscle tissue that contains fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations .
the endocardial cushion is a specialized region of mesenchymal cells that will give rise to the heart septa and valves [ go ]  .
the sinus venosus is a large cardiac chamber at the inflow tract that receives venous blood from systemic circulation .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the right side of the heart .
cardiac chamber in which blood enters the heart .
cardiac chamber through which blood leaves the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac septum that divides the left and right atria of the heart .
cardiac septum which separates the right ventricle from the left ventricle .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
the atrial part of middle layer of the heart ,  comprised of involuntary muscle
a region of the serous membrane that forms the innermost layer of the pericardium and the outer surface of the heart .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
the cardiac conduction system consists of specialized cardiomyocytes that regulate the frequency of heart beat [ go ] 
serous membrane which is divided into parietal and visceral serous pericardium .
membrane organ which is attached to the pericardial sac proper and the central tendon of diaphragm and is continuous with the pretracheal fascia .
a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels .
the combination of pericardial sac  ( a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels )  plus fibrous pericardium .
parietal serous membrane which is part of the pericardium and forms the outer layer of the pericardial sac .
transudate contained in the pericardial cavity .
visceral serous membrane which is continuous with the parietal serous pericardium and is attached to the myocardium [ fma ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pericardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense connective tissue which contains predominantly elastic fibers and is found in the tunica media of the aorta wall .
the middle layer of the aorta wall ,  containing the smooth muscle layer and elastic fibers .
the innermost layer of the aorta ,  containing the endothelium and an inner elastic membrane .
vein of heart that drains the myocardium
an embryonic group of progenitor cells that forms from an outpouching of the septum transversum near the venous pole of the heart and gives rise to the epicardium
a thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo ,  forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions .
the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue located in the wall of the aorta
a myocardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pericardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
dense connective tissue that separates the atria from the ventricles and provides physical support for the heart .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a interatrial septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a cardiac septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a myocardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of an aorta ,  enclosing the luminal space .
the outermost layer of the aorta wall ,  containing connective tissue and collagen and elastic fibers
the muscular portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
a transient fetal dilation of the distal  ( or cranial )  heart tube located where the arterial trunk joins the ventral roots of the aortic arches
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a cardiac ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thin layer of flat cells that line the aorta and form a barrier between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall
an endocardium that is part of a interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a bulbus cordis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of oral region .
a ventricular outflow tract is a portion of either the left ventricle or right ventricle of the heart through which blood passes in order to enter the great arteries .
an outflow tract that is part of a aorta .
an outflow tract that is part of a cardiac atrium .
anteriosuperior ,  smooth - walled portion of the cavity of the right ventricle ,  beginning at the supraventricular crest and terminating in the pulmonary trunk
anterosuperior fibrous portion of the left ventricle that connects to the ascending aorta .
outflow part of atrium which consists of wall and cavity of the outflow part of right atrium and the tricuspid valve .
an outflow tract of atrium that is part of a left atrium .
the wall of the heart that separates the right atrium and left ventricle ;  and is located just above the septal cusp of the tricuspid valve
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
a myocardium that is part of a left ventricle of a heart .
a myocardium that is part of a right ventricle of a heart .
loose connective tissue located at the outer and inner layers of organs .
a mesothelium that is part of a serous pericardium .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the sinus venosus .
endocardium that is part of the right atrium .
any endocardium that is part of the right ventricle of the heart .
any endocardium that is part of the left ventricle of the heart .
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the majority of the mesodermal component of the right ventricle ,  arterial pole  ( outflow tract )  and venous pole  ( inflow tract )  .
any portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of the conducting system of heart or the purkinje fibers .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
an anatomical junction that divides and overlaps with and atrium and a ventricle in the heart .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of aorta tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
a layer of tissue between the muscularis and serosa .
visceral intrapericardial fat contiguous with the myocardial surface .
luminal space of the right ventricle of the heart .
luminal space of the left atrium of the heart .
luminal space of the left ventricle of the heart .
luminal space of the right atrium of the heart .
endocardium that is part of the left atrium .
fat deposits in the mediastinum outside the parietal pericardium  .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of aorta .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of pulmonary trunk .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the lateral and septal walls of right ventricle .
wall of organ which has as its parts the endocardium ,  myocardium  ,  epicardium ,  and the cardiac septum ,  surrounded by the pericardial sac proper and is continuous with the walls of the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous trees .
an anatomical junction between two parts of the digestive tract .
any head that is part of some larva .
any sense organ that is part of some larva .
any sense organ  ( uberon:6005155 )  that is part of some larval head  ( uberon:6001730 )  .
left part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
right part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
an environmental zone which an animal consistently defends against conspecifics or ,  occasionally ,  animals of other species
