the ligule projections occur along the distal edge of the ligule and comprise numerous epidermal cell projections \  ,  forming a microscopic 'fringe' of projections . \ n
one of the many veins which traverse the length of the leaf \  ,  running parallel to the midrib .
the midvein in the leaf sheath region of the leaf is seemingly the same diameter as the neighboring lateral veins and is indistinguishable from the lateral veins except on the basis of position .
the ligule is a unique line of epidermal tissue and  appears to be composed of 'fused hairs' .
silica and cork short cells .
the ligule in zea mays is a protruding line of tissue on the inner / upper  ( adaxial )  surface of the leaf at the boundary between the leaf - sheath and the leaf blade  ( lamina )   -  the ligular region of the leaf .
provide defn .
trichomes  ( hairs )  which are present at the distal and proximal ends of the margin of the auricle .
a vein that arises from the midvein or one of the lateral veins .
provide definition
microhairs originate from one of the epidermal cells . . . .
the proximal  ( basal )  portion of the leaf that initiates at the culm node and wraps around the stem and extending to the ligule  ( adaxial surface )  and collar  ( abaxial surface )  regions of the leaf .
the epidermal tissue that is coincident with the auricular region of the lamina .
expanded lateral outgrowth of the stem produced in succession from the growing point \  ,  and having a bud in its axil .
provide a definition for this .
a vein that arises from the midvein or one of the lateral veins .
the zea mays leaf consists of 3 parts \ : the sheath which envelops the culm ;  the blade  ( lamina )  which extends from the sheath ;  the collar and ligule located at the junction of the sheath and the blade  ( lamina )  .
provide defn .
the root system of zea mays is a complex organ .
leaf blade auricles are small appendages  ( portion of leaf tissue )  in the collar area of the leaf  ( proximal end  ( base )  of the lamina  ( leaf blade )  )  immediately lateral to the ligule .
the zea mays plant structure ontology consists of controlled vocabulary terms for zea mays anatomy  ( including morphology )  .
the vascular tissue which forms distinct veins in the leaf sheath .
trichome found in the midrib region on the adaxial surface of a mature leaf .
provide defn .
provide defn .
provide defn .
provide defn .
provide defn .
a natural part or structure in a plant \  ,  capable of performing some special action  ( termed its function )  \  ,  which is essential to the life or well - being of the whole ;  as \  ,  the root \  ,  stem \  ,  leaves etc \  ,  are organs of plants .
the trichomes  ( hairs )  that occur at the margin of the distal end of the leaf sheath  -  adjacent to the base of the ligule and the proximal edge of the auricular region .
the line of yellow tissue between the leaf sheath and the lamina on the abaxial surface of the leaf  ( equivalent to the proximal edge of the auricular region )  .
covering \  ,  usually of hairs  ( trichomes )  on the surface .
covering \  ,  usually of hairs  ( trichomes )  on the surface .
this descriptor refers to whether the ligule is hyaline \  ,  membranous \  ,  scarious . . .
juvenile leaves are distinct from adult leaves in maize .
the adult leaves are above the juvenile  ( oldest )  leaves .
the primary root  ( radicle or tap root )  is the initial root structure which emerges from the embryo of the caryopsis  ( kernel / seed )  .
the seminal root system consists of the adventitious lateral roots which are present in the ungerminated caryopsis  ( kernel \  ,  seed )   -  they are formed during embryogenesis .
the adventitious root system consists of all those roots that arise in the basal intercalary meristem of the lower internodes  ( above the first internode )  of the culm  ( stem )  .
some of the lateral roots of the maize plant comprise the seminal root system .
these  ( adventitious )  lateral roots  emerge from the primary root  ( radicle \  ,  tap root )  at varying points behind the zone of root hair formation .
there are two spatial components of the adventitious root system .
the subterranean crown roots are a component of the adventitious root system .
prop  ( 'brace' )  roots are crown roots which have an aerial  ( above - ground )  origin .
a root branch is an adventitious root that emerges from any of the various types of lateral root .
the lateral branch internode is the region of the lateral branch which is bounded by a lateral branch node at each end .
a lateral branch axillary  ( lateral )  bud is found in the axil of each of the husk leaves and the prophyll \  ,  which arise from the lateral branch nodes of the shank  ( proximal end of the lateral  ( axillary )  branch ( es )  )  .
the culm is equivalent to the stalk of the zea mays plant .
a lateral branch  ( often referred to as an ear shoot )  of the corn plant bears the female inflorescence  ( flowering system )  .
the shank is the portion of the lateral branch below the ear .
the central axis / core of the 'ear'  ( distal end of the lateral branch / ear shoot )  upon which the kernels  ( caryopses )  are borne .
the culm nodes are regions of dense tissue appearing as slightly swollen regions along the length of the culm .
the lowermost leaf on the short lateral  ( axillary )  branch  ( shank )  bearing the ear .
the husks are modified leaves which arise from the short lateral  ( axillary )  branch  ( shank )  bearing the ear .
the culm internode is the region of the culm which is bounded by a culm node at each end .
the lateral branch nodes are regions of dense tissue appearing as slightly swollen regions along the length of the lateral branch .
a culm axillary  ( lateral )  bud is found in the axil of each leaf arising from the culm nodes .
the mesocotyl is the first culm internode of the maize culm .
the attachment of the leaf to the node of the culm is via the base of the leaf sheath .
the 'ear' is the distal part of a lateral  ( axillary )  branch and bears the functionally - female florets in a highly contracted inflorescence .
the functionally - male flowering structure  ( staminate inflorescence )  which terminates the culm  ( stem )  of a zea mays plant .
the spikelet is the basic unit of the grass inflorescence and each spikelet is usually subtended by a pair of leaf - like  ( bract - like )  structures \  ,  called glumes \  ,  at its base .
the penultimate bract - like structure that subtends the grass floret .
the palea is the uppermost bract - like structure that subtends the grass floret .
the penultimate bract - like structure that subtends the upper  ( pedicelled )  floret of the pedicellate spikelet of the ear  ( pistillate inflorescence )  .
the penultimate bract - like structure that subtends the lower  ( sessile )  floret of the pedicellate spikelet of the ear  ( pistillate inflorescence )  .
the penultimate bract - like structure that subtends the upper  ( pedicelled )  floret of the sessile spikelet of the ear  ( pistillate inflorescence )  .
the penultimate bract - like structure that subtends the lower  ( sessile )  floret of the sessile spikelet of the ear  ( pistillate inflorescence )  .
the upper  ( inner )  of the two bract - like structures that subtend the base of the pedicelled spikelets of the ear  ( pistillate inflorescence )  .
the lower  ( outer )  of the two bract - like structures that subtend the base of the pedicelled spikelets of the ear  ( pistillate inflorescence )  .
the uppermost bract - like structure that subtends the upper  ( pedicellate )  floret of the pedicellate spikelet of the tassel  ( staminate inflorescence )  .
the uppermost bract - like structure that subtends the lower  ( sessile )  floret of the pedicellate spikelet of the ear  ( pistillate inflorescence )  .
the gynoecium development of the upper floret begins with the production of a ridge on the abaxial surface of the apical meristem of the floret \  ,  distal to the third stamen  ( which later degenerates )  .
the gynoecium development of the lower floret begins with the production of a ridge on the abaxial surface of the apical meristem of the floret \  ,  distal to the third stamen  ( which later degenerates )  .
the upper  ( inner )  of the two leaf - like  ( bract - like )  structures that subtend the base of the pedicelled spikelets of the tassel  ( staminate inflorescence )  .
the lower  ( outer )  of the two leaf - like  ( bract - like )  structures that subtend the base of the pedicelled spikelets of the tassel  ( staminate inflorescence )  .
the upper  ( inner )  of the two leaf - like  ( bract - like )  structures that subtend the base of the sessile spikelets of the tassel  ( staminate inflorescence )  .
the lower  ( outer )  of the two leaf - like  ( bract - like )  structures that subtend the base of the sessile spikelets of the tassel  ( staminate inflorescence )  .
the uppermost bract - like structure that subtends the lower  ( sessile )  floret of the pedicellate spikelet of the tassel  ( staminate inflorescence )  .
the uppermost bract - like structure that subtends the upper  ( pedicellate )  floret of the sessile spikelet of the tassel  ( staminate inflorescence )  .
the uppermost bract - like structure that subtends the lower  ( sessile )  floret of the sessile spikelet of the tassel  ( staminate inflorescence )  .
the stamens comprise the androecium of each tassel floret  ( flower )  .
the development of the gynoecial tissue from the floral meristem occurs during the ongoing development of the three stamen primordia .the gynoecial tissue develops via the initiation of an adaxial ridge on the remainder of the floral meristem distal to the three stamens .
two \  ,  small \  ,  scale - like .
two \  ,  small \  ,  scale - like .
the stamens comprise the androecium of each tassel floret  ( flower )  .
the stamens comprise the androecium of each tassel floret  ( flower )  .
the stamens comprise the androecium of each tassel floret  ( flower )  .
each spikelet in either of the inflorescences in zea is subtended by a pair of leaf - like  ( bract - like )  structures \  ,  called glumes \  ,  at its base .
each spikelet in either of the inflorescences in zea is subtended by a pair of leaf - like  ( bract - like )  structures \  ,  called glumes \  ,  at its base .
each spikelet in either of the inflorescences in zea is subtended by a pair of leaf - like  ( bract - like )  structures \  ,  called glumes \  ,  at its base .
the floret is the individual flower of the zea mays plant .
the rachilla \  ,  or central axis \  ,  is the structure which bears the distichous glumes at the base and florets above .
the hair - like styles in maize .
the male reproductive organ of a flowering plant \  ,  comprising the filament  ( stalk - like structure )  and anther  ( pollen producing structure )  .
the pollen bearing part of the stamen .
the stalk - like structure of the stamen \  ,  which bears the anther .
a small rounded or scale - like structure  ( glandular - like organ )  found between the base of the stamens in the grass floret  ( flower )  .
the androecium is the male reproductive whorl of a flowering plant \  ,  comprising the stamen ( s )  .
gynoecium is the collective term for all of the carpels or pistils of a flower  ( floret )  .
the husk structure consists mostly of the husk sheath .
the husk leaf  ( lamina )  is a small  ( short \  ,  reduced  -  less than 20 mm )  portion of modified leaf - blade tissue that is present at the distal end of each husk .
the husk ligule in zea mays is sometimes absent .
the development of the gynoecial tissue from the floral meristem occurs during the ongoing development of the three stamen primordia .the gynoecial tissue develops via the initiation of an adaxial ridge on the remainder of the floral meristem distal to the three stamens .
two \  ,  small \  ,  scale - like .
two \  ,  small \  ,  scale - like .
the development of the gynoecial tissue from the floral meristem occurs during the ongoing development of the three stamen primordia .the gynoecial tissue develops via the initiation of an adaxial ridge on the remainder of the floral meristem distal to the three stamens .
the development of the gynoecial tissue from the floral meristem occurs during the ongoing development of the three stamen primordia .the gynoecial tissue develops via the initiation of an adaxial ridge on the remainder of the floral meristem distal to the three stamens .
the last leaf to emerge in a determinate plant in the poaceae  ( determinate growth \ : formation of a restricted number of lateral organs by an apical meristem ;  apical meristem terminates growth e .g .
the terms and definitions of the various tissues in zea mays .
a group of meristematic cells at the apex of the root that by cell division  ( mitosis )  produce the precursors of the primary tissues of the root .
a group of meristematic cells at the apex of the shoot that by cell division  ( mitosis )  produce the precursors of the primary tissues of the shoot ;  may be vegetative \  ,  initiating vegetative tissues and organs \  ,  or reproductive \  ,  initiating reproductive tissues and organs .
the floret meristem is derived / develops from the spikelet meristem .
the meristem which produces the tassel and the ear inflorescences .
the ear meristem gives rise to numerous spikelet - pair primordia which are arranged in characteristic rows along the longitudinal axis of the ear  ( functionally female inflorescence )  .
the meristem which gives rise to a lateral root  ( zea \ :15065 )  .
the meristem located in the axil of a leaf and giving rise to an axilllary bud .
shoot meristematic tissue arising other than at the apex or in association with a leaf primordium .
a meristematic tissue consisting of parallel layers of cells dividing anticlinally  ( perpendicular to the leaf surface )  .
the meristem which gives rise to the primary root  ( zea \ :15061 )  .
the meristem which gives rise to the crown roots  ( zea \ :15066 )  .there are two spatial components of the adventitious root system .
the meristem which gives rise to the prop roots  ( zea \ :15068 )  .
the meristem which gives rise to the subterranean crown roots  ( zea \ :15067 )  .the subterranean crown roots are a component of the adventitious root system .
the meristem which gives rise to the seminal lateral roots  ( zea \ :15064 )  .
the meristem which gives rise to the adventitious root system .
the meristem which gives rise to a root branch   ( zea \ :15069 )  .
a dry \  ,  one - seeded \  ,  indehiscent fruit with the seed coat fused to the pericarp .
the term tiller is a collective term used for all of the various forms of adventitious shoot which is produced by zea mays .
a leaf primordium is typically referred to as a cell / an organized series of cells in their earliest stage of differentiation with the ontogenetic goal of forming a leaf .
a group of meristematic cells at the apex of root or shoot that by cell division produce the precursors of the primary tissues of root or shoot .
a group of about 250 cells arranged in at least two layers forming a ring within the shoot apical meristem .
