the stages describing the callus growth and differentiation in the tissue culture experiments .
the gross developmental stages defined for the plant .
the development and growth of maize have been translated into several scales to quantify development for scientific and management purposes .
process by which embryonic organs formed during kernel development and which have been dormant in the dry seed \  ,  resume their growth under appropriate temperature and moisture conditions
a case when it is difficult to annotate the growth stage defined in an experiment
the radicle and its enclosing sheath \  ,  the coleorhiza \  ,  break through the pericarp .
the coleoptile \  ,  enclosing the plumule or embryonic shoot \  ,  pushes through the pericarp
commonly refers to the growth stage between germination and tassel differentiation \  ,  with a duration of approximately three weeks for adapted cultivars in the us corn belt
coleoptile appears above the soil surface .
first or second leaf collar visible .
3 or 4 leaf collars visible
apical dome of shoot meristem elongates \  ,  followed by appearance of tassel branch primordia .
after tassel initiation \  ,  stem length begins to increase rapidly \  ,  through elongation of cells formed by the intercalary meristem at the base of above - ground internodes .
elongation of apical dome of axillary meristem corresponding to top ear \  ,  followed by appearance of spikelet primordia .
in adapted materials in the us corn belt \  ,  the collars of leaves 9 - 11 are visible  ( some of the lowest leaves may already have degenerated by this stage )  .
rapid stem elongation continues .in adapted materials in the us corn belt \  ,  12 - 14 leaf collars are visible .
late vegetative stage \  ,  corresponding to the 15 - leaf stage or later in adapted hybrids in the us corn belt \  ,  which normally have a total of about 20 leaves .
includes both male  ( pollen )  and female  ( embryo sac )  gametophyte development \  ,  which are sub stages of this stage
microsporogenesis \  ,  or pollen development \  ,  includes all stages from microsporocyte meiosis through the mature pollen grain
includes megasporogenesis  ( female meiosis )  and megagametogenesis  ( beginning with mitotic division of the meiotic products through maturation of the embryo sac ) 
the term  \ "flowering \ " is used here to encompass the processes of anthesis  ( pollen shed )  \  ,  silking  ( emergence of styles from husk )  \  ,  pollination \  ,  and fertilization
anthers are extruded between glume and lemma \  ,  pores at the anther tip break open \  ,  and pollen is released .
silks  ( styles )  emerge from the husks at the ear tip .
pollen lands on a silk hair \  ,  hydrates \  ,  and germinates by sending out a pollen tube through the pollen pore .
fertilization occurs 16 - 24 hours after pollination .
the period of slow kernel growth between fertilization and the beginning of linear grain - filling \  ,  lasting roughly 10 - 12 days .
this phase is the initial few days following fertilization \  ,  during which time very slow dry matter accumulation occurs in the kernel .
the phase with increased metabolic activity and rapid kernel development that links the dilatory phase with the linear grain - filling period .
occurs when the ovoid \  ,  radially symmetrical proembryo elongates to form a cone - shaped structure \  ,  establishing the future shoot - root meristem axis \  ,  about 10 - 12 days after pollination .
stage of rapid \  ,  nearly linear increase in kernel dry matter \  ,  that begins about 2 weeks after pollination and lasts almost until physiological maturity
this stage is initiated when significant starch accumulation begins \  ,  approximately 12 - 17 days after pollination  ( dap )  .
in the coleoptilar stage \  ,  the embryo develops a prominent shoot apical meristem surrounded by the coleoptilar ring \  ,  and backed by the flattened \  ,  spade - shaped scutellum \  ,  it occurs about 12 - 14 days after pollination
embryo stage 1 is defined by the appearance of first leaf primordium from the shoot apical meristem \  ,  it occurs about 14 - 18 days after pollination \  ,  when embryo is slightly more than 1 mm long
endosperm fluid has changed from clear to a milky white \  ,  more viscous substance due to accumulating starch \  ,  kernels are about 80% moisture \  ,  aleurone color characteristic of the genotype appears \  ,  occurs about 18 - 22 days after pollination
endosperm fluid has changed to a pasty or soft dough - like consistency \  ,  kernels have about 70% moisture \  ,  occurs about 22 - 28 days after pollination .
endosperm consistency checked by firmer dough than in the previous stage .
rate of dry matter accumulation in kernel diminishes as endosperm transfer cells are crushed .
the stage begins at physiological maturity  ( when the kernel has approximately 30 - 35% moisture )  and continues through dry kernel  ( 15% moisture or less )  .
occurs when grain dry matter accumulation ceases and a black abscission layer forms at the base of the kernel \  ,  approx .
the kernel has dried to safe storage moisture \  ,  15% or less
the growth and developmental stages defined for the rice plant .
at this point \  ,  the panicle is 1 to 2 mm in length and the branching of the panicle is visible
one of the ripening stages when endosperm starts hardening .
occurs when the seed coat has imbibed adequate water becoming soft and elastic .
is the time when the panicle begins to exsert from the boot .
the whole grain is hard and ready for harvest .
at this stage \  ,  the developing starch grains in the kernel are soft \  ,  and the interior of the kernel is filled with a white liquid resembling milk .
occurs when the first internode called the mesocotyl has elongated and pushed the tip of the rice coleoptile  ( epiblast or first sheathing leaf )  through the soil surface
begins about the same time panicle initiation is occurring .
usually begins at the fifth leaf stage when the first tiller is visible and emerges from the axillary bud of the second leaf on the culm .
when the imbibition of the seed is complete .
the leaf has just emerged .
when 9 or more leaves have unfolded or exposed .
when a quarter of the inflorescence has emerged .
when half of the inflorescence has emerged .
the time of flowering or pollination .
when the of flowering or pollination has just begun
when the of flowering or pollination has occurred on 50 percent of  all florets in the inflorescence
when the flowering or pollination is complete in all florets .
kernel is difficult to divide by using the thumbnail .
kernel can no longer be dented with thumbnail .
viable seed giving 50 percent germination .
sorghum development and key growth stages as described by brent bean and carl patrick \  ,  extension agronomist and entomologist at the texas a&m \  ,  agricultural research and extension station .
coleoptile visible at soil surface .
collar of 3rd leaf is visible
collar of 5th leaf is visible
growing point visible above the soil surface .
tip of the flag leaf  ( last leaf )  is visible in the whorl .
leaf collars of all leaves are now visible .
50% of the plants in the field have visible heads
grain can be easily squeezed between the fingers
cannot squeeze grain between the fingers .
this stage is identified by the dark spot on the tip of the kernel .
the developmental stages of individual plant parts or organs in a rice plant .
defines all the stages of embryo development from fertilization stage to maturity stage .
defines all the stages of leaf development from recruitment of leaf primordial cells to fully developed leaf .
growth stages from germination to panicle initiation stage .
growth stages from panicle initiation to heading stage .
growth stages from fertilization \  ,  embryo formation to ripening and maturation stage .
the period from development of the first to fourth leaf stage
collar of 4th leaf is visible .
tillering increases in a sigmoidal - shaped curve until the maximum tiller number is reached .
producing new tillers from nodes after harvest
is the period from the end of active tillering to the beginning of the reproductive stage .
is the time when the panicle primordia initiate the production of a panicle in the uppermost node of the culm
this stage is characterized by a swelling of the flag leaf sheath \  ,  caused by an increase in the size of the panicle as it grows up the leaf sheath .
in this stage \  ,  meiosis occurs .
in this stage the flag leaf has completely extended .
refers to the events between the opening and closing of floret
the starch in the grain begins to become firm but is still soft
occurs when 50% of the plants in the field are in some stage of bloom
the whole grain is firm during this stage and almost ready for harvest .
the development and growth of cereals wheat \  ,  oat and barley has been translated into several numeric scales to quantify development for scientific and management purposes .
defines all the stages of panicle or rice inflorescence development from switching over of the stem apical meristem into rachis meristem to mature panicle formation .
defines all the stages of spikelet development from formation of rudimentary glumes to floret development .
defines all the stages of stamen development from stamen primordia differentiation to end of microgametogenesis .
defines all the stages of ovule development from carpel primordium formation to megagametogenesis .
recruitment of leaf founder or primordial cells occurs .
elongation of leaf blade occurs along with differentiation of epidermis specific bulliform cells \  ,  silica cells \  ,  cork cells and stomata .
foot - like shape \  ,  with overlapping of two leaf margins occurs along with differentiation of vascular bundle and establishment of leaf domains along the central - marginal axis .
protrusion of leaf primordium and elongation of leaf margin around stem apical meristem  ( sam )  occurs .
elongation of leaf sheath \  ,  emergence of leaf blade from the sheath of preceding leaf and formation of lacunae occurs .
formation of ligule primordia and leaf blade and leaf sheath boundary occurs \  ,  along with differentiation of sclerenchymatous cells and initiation of epidermis .
completely mature adult leaf .
the stage marked by the fertilization event .
marked with onset of coleoptile \  ,  stem apical meristem  ( sam )  and radicle differentiation .
globular stage of the embryo .
first division of fertilized egg .
protrusion of first leaf primordium and enlargement of scutellum occurs at this stage .
it's a globular stage with oblong - shaped embryo .
identified by protrusion of 2nd and 3rd leaf primordia and epiblast .
enlargement of embryo parts and morphological completion .
embryo maturation process begins .
embryo gains dormancy and tolerance for desiccation .
starts with carpel primordium formation .
meiotic division of the megaspore mother cell results in a linear tetrad of megaspores .
integument primordia are initiated on both sides of the ovule primordium .
ovule primordium formation and carpel elongation occurs .
the inner integument fully encloses the nucellus \  ,  except for the area where micropyle forms .
integument primordia starts differentiation \  ,  firstly into outer integument and later into the outer integument .
micropylar megaspore degenerates and the functional megaspore enlarges .
the developing embryosac is at the two - nucleate megagametophyte stage .
embryosac matures .the events include \  ,  polarization of the egg cell and synergids \  ,  fusion of the polar nuclei and mitosis of the antipodal cells to yield as many as eight cells .
formation of eight nucleate megagametophyte \  ,  followed by migration of the nuclei and cellularization .
large central vacuole develops between the two nuclei of megagametophyte \  ,  followed by mitosis of both the nuclei \  ,  resulting in the four nucleate stage .
starts with conversion of stem apical meristem into inflorescence  ( panicle )  apical meristem or rachis meristem .
formation of lateral meristems from primary rachis meristem occurs .
beginning of the callus formation from a single protoplast or pollen cell
multiplication of the callus in undifferentiated form
differentiation of  the callus tissue in the plantlet form .
adsorption of water by colloidal materials of the seed \  ,  leading to seed swelling and increased metabolic activity in the initial stages of germination .
formation of third and subsequent bracts and 7 - 15 primary branch primordia occurs .
rachis meristem enlarges and first bract formation occurs .
formation of spikelets and florets occurs .
ontology of the growth stages in various cereal crops .
elongation of primary branch primordia occurs .
rachis meristem enlarges and second bract formation occurs .
formation of two rudimentary glumes in distichous phyllotaxy occurs .
formation of lodicules occurs .
formation of lemma in distichous phyllotaxy occurs .
formation of two empty glumes in distichous phyllotaxy occurs .
formation of stamen primordia in a whorl occurs .
formation of palea in distichous phyllotaxy occurs .
starts with formation of carpel primordium and establishment of rudimentary and empty glumes \  ,  lemma \  ,  palea \  ,  stamen and pistil occurs .
stamen primordia differentiation occurs .
primary parietal cells periclinally divide into endothecium and secondary parietal cells .
archesporial cell differentiate at four corners of the anther hypodermal layer .
this stage describes the microsporogenesis in rice plant .
secondary parietal cells periclinally divide into middle layer and tapetum cells .
archesporial cells divide into primary sporogenous cells and primary parietal cells .
terms that are deleted from growth stage ontology are assigned this new parent term .
the physiologically mature seed that is ready to undergo the germination phase .
pollen mother cell meiosis enters meiosis - i leptotene stage .
pollen mother cell meiosis enters meiosis - i zygotene stage .
pollen mother cell meiosis enters meiosis - i pachytene stage .
pollen mother cell meiosis enters meiosis - i diplotene stage .
pollen mother cell meiosis enters meiosis - i diakinesis stage .
pollen mother cell meiosis enters meiosis - i metaphase - i and anaphase - i stage .
pollen mother cell meiosis enters meiosis - ii stage .
tetrad formation occurs .endothecium and middle layer cells degrade .
describes the microgametogenesis stages in rice plant .
uninucleate pollen formation .
pollen is in binucleate stage .
pollen undergoes mitosis - i .
pollen undergoes mitosis - ii .
pollen undergoes maturation phase and so the anthers .
absorption of water by  the seed \  ,  leading to the swelling of endosperm \  ,  embryo and seedcoat tissues .
the process of absorption of water by  the seed \  ,  leading to the swelling of endosperm \  ,  embryo and seedcoat tissues has just begun .
absorption of water by  the seed \  ,  leading to the swelling of endosperm \  ,  embryo and seedcoat tissues is complete .
the radicle and its enclosing sheath \  ,  the coleorhiza \  ,  breaks through the pericarp .
the coleoptile \  ,  enclosing the plumule emerges through the pericarp .
the radicle with coleorhiza and coleoptile \  ,  enclosing the plumule \  ,  breaks through the pericarp .
