an ontology of biological or bioinformatics concepts and relations ,  a controlled vocabulary ,  structured glossary etc .
a graphical 2d tabular representation of gene expression data ,  typically derived from a dna microarray experiment .
image ,  hybridisation or some other data arising from a study of gene expression ,  typically profiling or quantification .
biological or biomedical data has been rendered into an image ,  typically for display on screen .
groupings of gene expression profiles according to a clustering algorithm .
format of taverna workflows .
genbank entry format .
html ,  or hypertext markup language in full ,  is a data format specification is a markup language for web pages and is the publishing language of the world wide web .
extensible markup language  ( xml )  is a standard set of rules for encoding documents in a machine - readable form defined by the w3c .
obo format is the text file format used by obo - edit ,  the open source ,  platform - independent application for viewing and editing ontologies .
systems biology markup language  ( sbml )  is a machine - readable format for representing models .
mage - tab is a tab delimited data format comprimising of adf file for array design ,  idffor experimental design ,  sdrf for sample data relationships and associated data files .
copasiml ,  the native format of copasi .
search or query a data resource and retrieve entries and  /  or annotation .
annotate a genome sequence with terms from a controlled vocabulary .
model or simulate some biological entity or system ,  typically using mathematical techniques including  dynamical systems ,  statistical models ,  differential equations ,  and game theoretic models .
a generalization is a broad name for an output of a execution of a data mining algorithm on a specific dataset .
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
a package for processing protein mass spectrometry data .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a language in which source code is written ,  intended to executed / run by a software interpreter .
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
an information content entity that is a mark ( s )  or character ( s )  used as a conventional representation of another entity .
an information content entity is an entity that is generically dependent on some artifact and stands in relation of aboutness to some entity .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
an algorithm is a set of instructions for performing a paticular calculation .
the syntax by which data is specified which renders it valid for a given format .
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a version number is an information content entity which is a sequence of characters borne by part of each of a class of manufactured products or its packaging and indicates its order within a set of other products having the same name .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
an entity that can bear roles ,  has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
a planned process that produces output data from input data .
an planned process that creates images ,  diagrams or animations from the input data .
stavrox software identifies cross - linked peptides .
proteomicstools software suite contains a bunch of tools used in proteomics research ,  including identification ,  result parsing ,  quantification ,  and modification .
chromeleon software provides full integration of thermo scientific gas chromatography  ( gc - ms / ms )  ,  liquid chromatography  ( lc - ms / ms )  ,  and ion chromatography  ( ic - ms )  instruments .
analyzerpro​ is a productivity software application for both low and high resolution lc - ms and gc - ms data with support for multiple vendors’ data .
swath is the only data independent acquisition  ( dia )  technique that allows comprehensive detection and quantitation of virtually every detectable compound in a sample  ( ms / msall )  .
supernovotm is a unique ,  hands - free solution for end - to - end de novo sequencing of monoclonal antibodies  ( mabs )  ,  enabling high throughput protein discovery .
protein identification software including an lc - ms / ms search engine ,  modification search and ptm profiling ,  sequence variant search ,  integration with de novo sequencing ,  and support for all types of fragment ions .
htseq is a python package that provides infrastructure to process data from high - throughput sequencing assays .
rna - seqc is a java program which computes a series of quality control metrics for rna - seq data .
rseqc package provides a number of useful modules that can comprehensively evaluate high throughput sequence data especially rna - seq data .
sam tools provide various utilities for manipulating alignments in the sam format ,  including sorting ,  merging ,  indexing and generating alignments in a per - position format .
fastqc aims to provide a simple way to do some quality control checks on raw sequence data coming from high throughput sequencing pipelines .
cutadapt finds and removes adapter sequences ,  primers ,  poly - a tails and other types of unwanted sequence from your high - throughput sequencing reads .
information processing is a process in which input information is analysed or transformed in order to produce information as output .
computer software ,  or generally just software ,  is any set of machine - readable instructions  ( most often in the form of a computer program )  that conform to a given syntax  ( sometimes referred to as a language )  that is interpretable by a given processor and that directs a computer's processor to perform specific operations .
a licence is a legal instrument  ( usually by way of contract law ,  with or without printed material )  governing the use or redistribution of the resource containing the licence .
information processing is a process in which input information is analysed or transformed in order to produce information as output .
microsoft excel 2007 is a spreadsheet editing and viewing tool .
matlab® is a high - level language and interactive environment that enables you to perform computationally intensive tasks faster than with traditional programming languages such as c ,  c +  +  ,  and fortran
omnioutliner is commercial outlining software for mac os x produced by the omni group
racket is a scheme - based language interpreter and programming environment
intellij idea is a commercial java ide for developing software .
copasi is a software application for simulation and analysis of biochemical networks and their dynamics .
microsoft excel 2003 is a spreadsheet editing and viewing tool .
an operating system is a piece of software which is responsible for managing software that runs on a computer and the interactions of that software with the hardware and system resources .
adobe illustrator is a graphics editor for creating and editing vector graphics .
obo - edit is an open source ontology editor optimized for the obo biological ontology file format .
scan control software is the user interface software that controls the agilent scanner .
this package provides user interface and database connection code for annotation data packages using sqlite data storage .
microarrays are powerful tools for discovering levels of gene expression .
fujifilm arraygauge™ software is specifically designed for macroarray and microarray samples ,  with all the practical functions necessary for the most powerful array analysis .
arraynorm is an platform - independent java tool for normalization and statistical analysis for microarray - experiment data .
this package is designed to provide solutions for quality assessment and to detect differentially expressed genes for the affymetrix genechips ,  including both 3'  - arrays and gene 1 .0 - st arrays .
this software implements a robust algorithm for spot finding and quantitation ,  quality metrics ,  and use of pre - made protocols ensure accuracy and reproducibility .
the c +  +  version of the command line blast +  tool made by the ncbi .
this package uses a bayesian hierarchical model to detect enriched regions from chip - chip experiments
binning clustering method -  the algorithm uses single - linkage clustering to join compounds into similarity groups ,  where every member in a cluster shares with at least one other member a similarity value above a user - specified threshold .
multiple alignment program for nucleic acid or protein sequences .
clustal omega provides improved scalability over previous clustal versions ,  allowing hundreds of thousands of sequences to be aligned in a few hours .
tcoffee is a multiple sequence alignment program with a number of different modes .
performs an alignment of dna ,  rna or proteins with the standard tcoffee mode .
aligns rna sequences using predicted secondary structures by accessing the rcoffee mode of the underlying tcoffee software .
performs an alignment of dna ,  rna or proteins with the standard tcoffee mode .
aligns dna ,  rna or proteins by combining the output of popular aligners and by accessing the mcoffee mode of the underlying tcoffee software .
aligns protein sequences using structural information by accessing the 3dcoffee / expresso mode of the underlying tcoffee software .
aligns distantly related proteins using homology extension  ( slow and accurate )  by accessing the psicoffee mode of the underlying tcoffee software .
the initial interface is via the command line .
q is a set of tools tailored for some specific kinds of free energy calculations ,  namely:  ( i )  free energy perturbation  ( fep )  simulations .
data analysis software which performs a variety of statistical ,  summarising ,  analytical and visualization tasks .
sequence alignment and modeling system ,  a collection of flexible software tools for creating ,  refining ,  and using linear hidden markov models for biological sequence analysis .
cytoscape is an open source bioinformatics software platform for visualizing molecular interaction networks and biological pathways and integrating these networks with annotations ,  gene expression profiles and other state data .
this role can be borne by any software which is a plugin for another piece of software .
cel binary format is a binary data format specification created by affymetrix where values are stored in little - endian format .
r package for producing statistics that populate the gene expression atlas .
python is a widely used general - purpose ,  high - level programming language .
david  ( the database for annotation ,  visualization and integrated discovery )  is a free online bioinformatics resource developed by the laboratory of immunopathogenesis and bioinformatics  ( lib )  .
position - specific iterated  ( psi )  - blast is the most sensitive blast program ,  making it useful for finding very distantly related proteins or new members of a protein family .
the entrez global query cross - database search system is a powerful federated search engine ,  or web portal that allows users to search many discrete health sciences databases at the national center for biotechnology information  ( ncbi )  website .
web content search is the searching for information on the world wide web .
a search engine is a software system that is designed to search for information on the world wide web .
weka  ( waikato environment for knowledge analysis )  is a suite of machine learning software ,  originally intended for data mining tasks ,  written in java and developed at the university of waikato ,  new zealand .
postgresql ,  often simply postgres ,  is an open source object - relational database management system  ( ordbms )  with an emphasis on extensibility and standards compliance .
the storing of digital information .
the free segway software package contains a novel method for analyzing multiple tracks of functional genomics data .
version 2 .6 of the python programming language .
version 2 .7 of the python programming language .
mac os is software which is used as the operating system for the macintosh personal computer created by apple inc .
os x is a mac os operating system which succeeds the original mac os ,  which had been apple's primary operating system since 1984 .
ibiosim has been developed for the modeling ,  analysis ,  and design of genetic circuits .
vcell is a complete model building ,  editing and simulation environment .
cobra  ( constraint - based reconstruction and analysis toolbox )  includes implementations of many of the commonly used forms of constraint - based analysis such as fba ,  gene deletions ,  flux variability analysis ,  sampling ,  and batch simulations together with tools to read in and manipulate constraint - based models .
cobra toolbox is the version of the cobra software for python .
cobra toolbox is the version of the cobra software for matlab .
libsbml is a free ,  open - source programming library to help you read ,  write ,  manipulate ,  translate ,  and validate sbml files and data streams .
gnu octave is a high - level interpreted language ,  primarily intended for numerical computations .
this package deals with hapmap snp reports ,  gwas ,  etc .
analysis of array cgh data : detection of breakpoints in genomic profiles and assignment of a status  ( gain ,  normal or lost )  to each chromosomal regions identified .
microarray image quantification is performed using gleams software
a set of tools for interacting with go and microarray data .
this package provides classes and methods to support gene set enrichment analysis  ( gsea )  .
models and methods for fitting linear models to gene expression data ,  together with tools for computing and using various regression diagnostics .
genedata expressionist® is an enterprise solution that integrates ,  stores and analyzes transcriptomics ,  proteomics and metabolomics data as well as a wide variety of phenotypic data .
genepix is the industry standard microarray image analysis software because of its unique combination of imaging and analysis tools ,  visualizations ,  automation capabilities ,  performance and ease of use .
package manipulating nucleotidic sequences  ( embl ,  fasta ,  genbank ) 
a package with focus on analysis of discrete regions of the genome .
package manipulating sequences with fold routines
gene selection based on a mixture of marginal distributions
the term 'geneselector' refers to a filter selecting those genes which are consistently identified as differentially expressed using various statistical procedures .
set of functions and class definitions to be able to read and write genespring specific data objects and covert them to bioconductor objects
genetic analyzer is a multi - color fluorescence - based dna analysis system with 16 capillaries operating in parallel ,  offers high - quality data and efficient sample processing
set of functions and class definitions to be able to read genetraffic specific data from a project summary zip file and covert them to bioconductor objects  ( for 1 color projects affy's expressionset ,  for 2 color projects marray's marrayraw ) 
this package  ( geneticsbase )  provides a foundation of efficient data structures and easy - to - use manipulation functions .
this package contains functions useful for designing genetics studies ,  including power and sample - size calculations .
classes and methods for handling pedigree data .
genomic data analyses requires integrated visualization of known genomic information and new experimental data .
globalancova approach: after appropriate normalisation ,  gene - expression - data appear rather symmetrical and outliers are no real problem ,  so least squares should be rather robust .
methods for estimating go semantic similarities .
functions and data used in balasubramanian ,  et al .
graph alignment is an extension package for the r programming environment which provides functions for finding an alignment between two networks based on link and node similarity scores .
software for microarray image analysis .
the package contains a modular pipeline for analysis of help microarray data ,  and includes graphical and mathematical tools with more general applications
this package fits heterogeneous error models for analysis of microarray data
technique which predicts a given transcription factor activity and then uses this infor -  mation to predict its targets .
the package is used to detect extended ,  diffuse and compact blemishes on microarray chips .
add an extra graphical display at the bottom of a heat map ,  indicating for each column a )  whether it has one of several binary properties or not ,  and b )  the value of a quantitative variable .
functions to visualize long vectors of integer data by means of hilbert curves
an interactive tool to visualize long vectors of integer data by means of hilbert curves
the iranges class and its extensions are low - level containers for storing sets of integer ranges .
a method to normalize of affymetrix genechip human mapping 100k and 500k set
this is a general image analysis program used in the study of electrophoretic separations ,  dot blots ,  slot blots ,  microplate assays ,  tlc assays ,  and plaque assays .
imagene microarray image analysis software by biodiscovery for microarrays ,  protein arrays and cgh analysis .
these scripts are for primer design and initial microarray data processing and are available as  .zip files:
image analysis software
multi sample acgh analysis package using kernel convolution
a package that provides a client interface to the kegg soap server
kegggraph is an interface between kegg pathway and graph object as well as a collection of tools to analyze ,  dissect and visualize these graphs .
ks measures how biased the ranks of a subset of items are among the ranks of the entire set
lbe is an efficient procedure for estimating the proportion of true null hypotheses ,  the false discovery rate  ( and so the q - values )  in the framework of estimating procedures based on the marginal distribution of the p - values without assumption for the alternative hypothesis .
lmgene package for analysis of microarray data using a linear model and glog data transformation in the r statistical package
this lpe library is used to do significance analysis of microarray data with small number of replicates .
two options are added to the lpe algorithm .
a publisher role is a role borne by an organization or individual in which they are responsible for making software available to a particular consumer group .
tools for analyzing micro array experiments
we propose importation ,  normalization ,  visualization ,  and quality control functions to correct identified sources of variability in array - cgh experiments .
affymetrix® microarray suite  ( mas )  is the core software product in the affymetrix software system providing instrument control ,  data acquisition ,  and data analysis for the entire genechip® platform .
minimum common regions  ( mcr )  algorithm -  minimal common regions  ( mcrs )  are dened as contiguous spans having at least a recurrence rate dened by a parameter  ( recurrence )  across samples .
this package includes a function for combining preprocessing and classification methods to calculate misclassification errors
medme allows the prediction of absolute and relative methylation levels based on measures obtained by medip - microarray experiments
uniform interfaces to machine learning code for data in bioconductor containers
mmd describes the distributions of gene expression levels directly via the marginal distributions .
creates classes used in model - view - controller  ( mvc )  design
computes mantel cluster correlations from a  ( p x n )  numeric data matrix  ( e .g .
processing mass spectrometry spectrum by using wavelet based algorithm
two - stage measurement error model for correlation estimation with smaller bias than the usual sample correlation
the functions in this r extension are intended for cross - study comparison of gene expression array data .
package for noise - robust soft clustering of gene expression time - series data  ( including a graphical user interface ) 
this package finds optimal sets of genes that seperate samples into two or more classes .
this includes exhaustive enumeration ,  triple - based inference , pairwise heuristic ,   module based inference ,  greedy hillclimbing
this package allows to characterize the operating characeristics of a microarray experiment ,  i .e .
functions for normalisation of two - color microarrays by optimised local regression and for detection of artefacts in microarray data
graphical user interface for the olin package
computer software for image acquisition ,  analysis and reporting ,  for use in the life sciences
detection of similarities between ordered lists of genes .
this package detects outliers using quantile regression on the m - a scatterplots of high - throughput data .
processing annotation data from public data repositories and building annoation data packages .
tools to integrate ,  annotate ,  and link phenotypes to cellular organizational units such as protein complexes and pathways .
parametric analysis of gene set enrichment
it is where we fit a model with probe level and chip level parameters on a probeset by probeset basis
this package performs tests for paired high - throughput data .
included are summarisation ,  differential expression detection ,  clustering and pca methods ,  together with useful plotting and data manipulation functions
the background intensity data from the spot quantification programs may be used to correct spot intensity .
quantarray® is a powerful microarray analysis software that enables researchers to easily and accurately visualize and quantitate gene expression data .
a fairly extensive and comprehensive interface to the graph algorithms contained in the boost library .
functions and datasets and examples to accompany the monograph r for bioinformatics .
for the support vector machine  ( svm )  ,  as presented in  [ 3 ]  and the nearest shrunken centroid  ( nsc ) 
a genotype calling algorithm for affymetrix snp arrays
rmaexpress is a standalone gui program for windows  ( and linux )  to compute gene expression summary values for affymetrix genechip® data using the robust multichip average expression summary and to carry out quality assessment using probe - level metrics .
this package can be used to handle mageml documents in bioconductor
rnaither analyzes cell - based rnai screens ,  and includes quality assessment ,  customizable normalization and statistical tests ,  leading to lists of significant genes and biological processes
utilities for roc ,  with uarray focus
this package provides mechanisms for automatic function prototyping and exposure of r functionality in a web services environment .
rank product method for identifying differentially expressed genes with application in meta - analysis
support for springer monograph on bioconductor
generic database methods
provides methods for accessing data stored in postgresql tables .
decomposition of isotopic patterns
the package contains functions for pre - processing affymetrix data using the rma +  and the rma +  +  methods .
this package allows user either to read an annotation data file from tigr resourcerer as a matrix or convert the file into a bioconductor annotation data package using the annbuilder package .
provides plotting capabilities for r graph objects
the package ringo facilitates the primary analysis of chip - chip data .
queries and data structures for protein interactions
microarray classification is designed for both biologists and statisticians .
the rosetta resolver® system provides a central analysis center and repository for biologists ,  statisticians ,  and bioinformaticians for the evaluation of gene expression data from microarrays and qpcr studies .
queries ,  data structure and interface to visualization of interaction datasets .
interface to redland rdf utilities
rtreemix is a package that offers an environment for estimating the mutagenetic trees mixture models from cross - sectional data and using them for various predictions .
a package to provide uuid values in r
a package for retrieval ,  preparation and analysis of data from the affymetrix genechip .
statistical analysis with a number of procedures ,  providing statistical information such as analysis of variance ,  regression ,  multivariate analysis ,  and categorical data analysis .
this package contains a systems biology markup language  ( sbml )  interface and biochemical system analysis tools with illustrative examples .
finds associations between dna copy number and gene expression .
a variety of data files and functions for the analysis of genetic interactions
functions for analysis of real - time quantitative pcr data at sirs - lab gmbh
functions and classes for dna copy number profiling of array - cgh data
this package defines classes and functions for plotting copy number and genotype in high throughput snp platforms such as affymetrix and illumina .
this package implements the signaling pathway impact analysis  ( spia )  which uses the information form a list of differentially expressed genes and their log fold changes together with signaling pathways topology ,  in order to identify the pathways most relevant to the condition under the study .
semantic similarity measures -  four methods proposed by resnik [ philip ,  1999 ]  ,  jiang [ jiang and conrath ,  1997 ]  ,  lin [ lin ,  1998 ]  and schlicker [ schlicker et al . ,  2006 ]  respectively have presented to determine the semantic similarities of two go terms based on the annotation statistics of their common ancestor terms .
sample size and power analysis for microarray data ,  where two groups are analysed .
software developer role is a role borne by an organization or individual in which they are responsible for authoring software .
an organization or legal entity  ( including single person )  that is responsible for developing software .
an organization or legal entity  ( including single person )  that is responsible for publishing software .
classical multivariate analysis - of - variance tests perform poorly in cases with several highly correlated responses and the tests collapse when the number of responses exceeds the number of observations .
arrayexpress bioconductor package is software that read in mage - tab format files from the arrayexpress ftp site and converts them to r objects .
package to create in silico interactomes
processes fluorescent images of microarrays
scanarray express provides superior spot finding and quantization algorithm .
high resolution scanning with pixel sizes of 2 ,  3 ,  5 ,  and 10 microns enables users to scan a range of array types from ultra - high density commercial arrays as well as low - density home - brew arrays .low level detection resulting from optimized precision optics ,  broad dynamic range ,  minimal spectral cross talk allowing users to detect weak features ,  achieve rapid ,  accurate and dependable results
base classes ,  functions ,  and methods for representation of high - throughput ,  short - read sequencing data .
the genespring - r integration package will allow you to expand the capability of genespring by integrating r programs seamlessly into genespring .
tigr spotfinder was designed for the rapid ,  reproducible and computer - aided analysis of microarray images and the quantification of gene expression
spotfire’s interactive ,  visual capabilities for data analysis empower individuals to easily see trends ,  patterns outliers and unanticipated relationships in data with unprecedented speed and adaptability .
tiling analysis software  ( tas )  is a freely downloadable tool for analysis ,  with which one can perform a simulation to assess the likelihood that an observed probe overlap region is different from the expected overlap with no enrichment from binding ,  and can derive an interval overlap report and / or computation of summary statistics .
this packages provides a targeted pre - processing method for gc - ms data .
a prototype for a mechanism for specifying the types of parameters and the return value for an r function .
hidden markov models for characterizing chromosomal alterations in high throughput snp arrays
xde: a bayesian hierarchical model for cross - study analysis of differential gene expression
analysis software for integrated image analysis for spot detection  ,  position and quantification
the acgh package functions for reading data from image analysis output files and clone information files ,  creation of acgh s3 objects for storing these data .
acuity is the complete enterprise microarray informatics platform for microarray data storage ,  data filtering and data analysis .
affxparser is a package for parsing affymetrix files  ( cdf ,  cel ,  chp ,  bpmap ,  bar )  .
affycontam is software which provides the in silico creation of quality problems in cel - level data to help evaluate performance of quality metrics .
a graphical user interface for affy analysis using the limma microarray package
a package that extends and improves the functionality of the base affy package .
the package contains parallelized functions for exploratory oligonucleotide array analysis .
this package creates a qc report for an affybatch object .
this package provides easy ,  fast functions for the extraction and annotation of individual probes from affymetrix tiling arrays .
various wrapper functions that have been written to streamline the more common analyses that a core biostatistician might see
routines for parsing affymetrix data files based upon file format information .
the package contains functions to perform the pdnn method described by li zhang et al .
altcdfenvs is a software package for alternative cdf environments  ( aka probeset mappings )  and contains convenience data structures and functions to handle cdfenvs .
this package functions for handling data from bioconductor affymetrix annotation data packages .allows searching biological metadata using various criteria .
using r enviroments for annotation .
this package functions to annotate microarrays ,  find orthologs ,  and integrate heterogeneous gene expression profiles using annotation and other molecular biology information available as flat file database  ( plain text files )  .
this package functions to estimate a bipartite graph of protein complex membership using ap - ms data .
this package functions as methods for microarray analysis that take basic data types such as matrices and lists of vectors .
this package supports the application of diverse quality metrics to affybatch instances ,  summarizing these metrics via pca ,  and then performing parametric outlier detection on the pcs to identify aberrant arrays with a fixed type i error rate
this package functions for performing print - run and array level quality assessment .
this package generates a quality metrics report on expressionset ,  nchannelset ,  affybatch or beadlevellist objects containing microarray data with one or two channels .
applied precision microarray scanner model arrayworx comprehensive system that fully automates the image capture and quantitation of microarrays .
the package is able to read bead - level data  ( raw tiffs and text files )  output by beadscan as well as bead - summary data from beadstudio .
importing data from illumina snp experiments and performing copy number calculations and reports .
betr is a software package which implements the betr  ( bayesian estimation of temporal regulation )  algorithm to identify differentially expressed genes in microarray time - course data .
bgafun is a method to identify specifity determining residues in protein families
bayesian integrated analysis of affymetrix genechips
the biodist package contains some distance functions that have been shown to be useful in a number of dierent biological or bioinformatic problems .
synthetic datasets to a )  demonstrate the usage of bioconductor packages ,  b )  write unit tests ,  while keeping dependencies and ressources usage minimal .
this package provides examples and code that make use of the different graph related packages produced by bioconductor .
categorized views of r package repositories
the package enables retrieval of large amounts of data in a uniform way without the need to know the underlying database schemas or write complex sql queries .
the bridge package consists of several functions for testing for dierential expression among mul -  tiple samples
bioconductor package concerned with analysis of cell - based rna interference screens
analysis of cell - based rna interference screens
based on the algothrim proposed by dr . lynda chin's lab ,  this package provides functions that identify chromosome regions that show gains / losses commonly observed across different samples profiled using arraycgh platform .
categorical  ( e .g tumor vs normal )  class file format
this package can be used to estimate the number of clusters in a set of microarray data ,  as well as test the stability of these clusters .
this packages allow reading into r of codelink bioarray data exported as text from the codelink software .
define coerce methods for microarray data objects .
copa is a method to find genes that undergo recurrent fusion in a given cancer type by finding pairs of genes that have mutually exclusive outlier profiles .
cosmo allows the user to target the motif search by specifying a set of constraints that the unknown position weight matrix must satisfy .
cosmogui allows the user to interactively define constraint sets that can be used by the cosmo package to supervise the search for shared motifs in a set of dna sequences .
an objective in which the aim is to create a new database instance .
faster implementation of crlmm specific to snp 5 .0 and 6 .0 arrays ,  as well as a copy number tool specific to 6 .0 .
tools for export and import classification trees and clusters to other programs
analysis and visualization of gene expression and snp microarrays
this package contains functions for the efficient design of factorial two - colour microarray experiments and for the statistical analysis of factorial microarray data .
analyze microarray data
find significantly enriched gene classifications in a list of functionally undescribed genes based on their interpro domain structure .
this package implements a kolmogorov smirnov rank - sum based algorithm for training and classification of gene expression data sets .
gene - specific dye - bias correction of two - color microarray data using the gassco method
meta - data and tools to work with e . coli .
this package provides tools for evaluating cohort distributions of gene expression levels
estimation and testing for differential expression in multiple digital gene expression libraries .
this package provides fine grained annotation of affymetrix exon arrays ,  including mappings between the array probes and probesets and the ensembl exons ,  transcripts and genes they target .
this package explores and analyzes *omics data with r and ggobi
basic class definitions and generics for external pointer based vector objects for r . a simple in - memory implementation is also provided
this package provides a set of tools for analyzing data from a factorial designed microarray experiment ,  or any microarray experiment for which a linear model is appropriate .
this package implements a broad class of family based association tests for genetids data ,  with adjustments for population admixture using the code from the 'fbat' software program
this package contains two main functions .
fragment - level analysis of gas chromatography  -  mass spectrometry metabolomics data
robust model - based clustering using a t - mixture model with box - cox transformation .
this package provides s4 data structures and basic functions to deal with flow cytometry data .
flowjo is a commercial gui based software package from treestar inc . for the visualization and analysis of flow cytometry data .
this package provides quality control and quality assessment tools for flow cytometry data .
this package contains methods and functionality to analyse flow data that is beyond the basic infrastructure provided by the flowcore package .
this package provides utilities for flow cytometry data .
provides visualization tools for flow cytometry data
this package fits rossell's generalizations of the gamma - gamma hierarchical model for microarray data analysis ,  which substantially improve the quality of the fit at a low computational cost .
this package contains functions connecting r with the gaggle
bioconductor package concerned with background adjustment using sequence information
background adjustment using sequence information
gene cluster text file format
genarise is an easy to use tool for dual color microarray data .
the package takes a list of genes and predicts to which kegg pathway each gene maps to .
this package contains a targeted clustering algorithm for the analysis of microarray data .
some basic functions for filtering genes
http: /  / bioconductor .org / packages / 2 .4 / bioc / html / genemeta .html
some basic functions for plotting genetic data
tools for operation on genomic intervals .
global test allows the unit of analysis of the microarray experiment to be shifted from the single gene level to the pathway level ,  where a ‘pathway’ may be any set of genes ,  e .g .
testing whether sets of genes  ( e .g .
the package implements methods to compare lists of genes based on comparing the corresponding 'functional profiles' .
wraper functions for description / comparison of oligo id list using gene ontology database
classification using generalized partial least squares for two - group and multi - group  ( more than 2 group )  classification .
a package that implements some simple graph handling capabilities .
binning and plotting functions for hexagonal bins .
the hopach clustering algorithm builds a hierarchical tree of clusters by recursively partitioning a data set ,  while ordering and possibly collapsing clusters at each level .
a package that implements some simple capabilities for representing and manipulating hypergraphs .
many functions for computing the npmle for censored and truncated data .
a package for plotting genomic data by chromosomal location
imputation for microarray data  ( currently knn only ) 
the iterative bayesian model averaging  ( bma )  algorithm is a variable selection and classification algorithm with an application of classifying 2 - class microarray samples ,  as described in yeung ,  bumgarner and raftery  ( bioinformatics 2005 ,  21: 2394 - 2402 )  .
the iterative bayesian model averaging  ( bma )  algorithm for survival analysis is a variable selection method for applying survival analysis to microarray data .
test package for a pathway 'ontology'
lapmix is a software package for the identification of differentially expressed genes .
data analysis ,  linear models and differential expression for microarray data .
a graphical user interface for the limma microarray package
identification of interactions between binary variables using logic regression .
the logitt library implements the logit - t algorithm introduced in  -  - a high performance test of differential gene expression for oligonucleotide arrays -  -  by william j lemon ,  sandya liyanarachchi and ming you for use with affymetrix data stored in an affybatch object in r .
the lumi package provides an integrated solution for the illumina microarray data analysis .
graphically displays correlation in microarray data that is due to insufficient normalization
madb allows to create a simple microarray database to store microarray experiments and annotation data into it .
masigpro is a regression based approach to find genes for which there are significant gene expression profile differences between experimental groups in time course microarray experiments .
analysis of n - dye micro array experiment using mixed model effect .
this library contains functions to investigate links between differential gene expression and the chromosomal localization of the genes .
multivariate data analysis and graphical display of microarray data .
this package uses functions of various other packages together with other functions in a coordinated way to handle and analyse cdna microarray data
makeplatformdesign creates the platform design environments  ( pdenvs )  required by oligo .
this package has two functions .
class definitions for two - color spotted microarray data .
basic infrastructure for using oligonucleotide microarray reporter sequence information for preprocessing and quality assessment .
mdqc is a multivariate quality assessment method for microarrays based on quality control  ( qc )  reports .
1 )  data transformation for meta - analysis of microarray data: transformation of gene expression data to signed probability scale  ( mcmc / em methods )  2 )  combined differential expression on raw scale: weighted z - score after stabilizing mean - variance relation within platform
tools for meta - analysis in the presence of hierarchical  ( and / or sampling )  dependence ,  including with gene expression studies
this package provides pathway enrichment techniques for mirna expression data .
microrna is a software package which provides data resources for micrornas and various functions for manipulating them .
this package implements various algorithms for inferring mutual information networks from data .
multiple testing which includes controlling the family - wise error rate  ( fwer )  ,  generalized family - wise error rate  ( gfwer )  ,  tail probability of the proportion of false positives  ( tppfp )  ,  and false discovery rate  ( fdr )  .
resampling - based multiple hypothesis testing
nested effects models to reconstruct phenotypic hierarchies
this package allows to detect and correct for spatial and intensity biases with two - channel microarray data .
package for normalizing microarray data in single and multiple replicate experiments and fitting a normal - uniform mixture to detect differentially expressed genes in the cases where the two samples are being compared directly or indirectly  ( via a common reference sample ) 
statistical tools for building random mutagenesis libraries for prokaryotes .
a package to analyze oligonucleotide arrays  ( expression / snp / tiling / exon )  at probe - level .
this package contains class definitions ,  validity checks ,  and initialization methods for classes used by the oligo package .
this package was developed to simplify the use of bioconductor tools for beginners having limited or no experience in writing r code .
tools for working with ontologies and graphs
some functions for sample classification in microarrays
a function to make gene presence / absence calls based on distance from negative strand matching probesets  ( nsmp )  which are derived from affymetrix annotation .
routines for univariate and multivariate outlier detection with a focus on parametric methods ,  but support for some methods based on resistant statistics
build graphs from pathway databases ,  render them by rgraphviz
a cluster based method for missing value estimationn is included for comparison .
pcot2 is a permutation - based method for investigating changes in the activity of multi - gene networks .
builds platform design information packages .
this package can be used to classify microarray data using one of three penalized regression methods ;  partial least squares ,  principal components regression ,  or ridge regression .
functions for creating postgresql database tables ,  with auto incrementing primary keys ,  selection of foreign keys to allow referencial integrity and a logging mechanism .
functions to analyze microarray  ( gene expression )  data .
this package provides tools for computing and analyzing dependency relationships among r packages .
plgem is useful for detecting differential expression in microarray and proteomics datasets .
the plier  ( probe logarithmic error intensity estimate )  method produces an improved signal by accounting for experimentally observed patterns in probe behavior and handling error at the appropriately at low and high signal values .
probe level locally moderated weighted median - t  ( plw )  and locally moderated weighted - t  ( lmw )  .
tools for the analysis of protein interaction data .
tools for analysing and navigating data from high - throughput phenotyping experiments based on cellular assays and fluorescent detection  ( flow cytometry  ( facs )  ,  high - content screening microscopy )  .
a library of core preprocessing routines
most analyses of affymetrix genechip data are based on point estimates of expression levels and ignore the uncertainty of such estimates .
the package contains functions to perform normalization of high - throughput qpcr data .
reverse engineering of molecular regulatory networks with qp - graphs
quantile smoothing and genomic visualization of array data
this package takes a list of p - values resulting from the simultaneous testing of many hypotheses and estimates their q - values .
http: /  / bioconductor .org / packages / 2 .4 / bioc / html / rhvdm .html
r implementation from mat program to normalize and analyze tiling arrays and chip - chip data .
the rama package consists of several functions for robust estimation of two color microarray intensities with replicates
this package selects genes associated with survival .
a set of functions to dentify regional expression biases
statistical tools and data structures for analytic flow cytometry
r support for sbml ,  using libsbml
r interface to genome browsers and their annotation tracks
safe is a resampling - based method for testing functional categories is gene expression experiments .
this package implements several functions useful for analysis of sage  ( serial analysis of gene expressen )  data ,  i .e .
seqlogo takes the position weight matrix of a dna sequence motif and plots the corresponding sequence logo
conducts pathway analysis by calculating the nt_k and ne_k statistics
identification of differentially expressed genes and estimation of the false discovery rate  ( fdr )  using both the significance analysis of microarrays  ( sam )  and the empirical bayes analyses of microarrays  ( ebam )  .
provides high level functions for reading affy  .cel files ,  phenotypic data ,  and then computing simple things with it ,  such as t - tests ,  fold changes and the like .
functions to computationally simulate the ap - ms technology based on wet - lab data .
this package has been prepared to assist users in computing either a sample size or power value for a microarray experimental study .
xmapbridge can plot graphs in the x:map genome browser .
methods for segmenting ,  normalising and processing acgh data ;  including plotting functions for visualising raw and segmented data for individual and multiple arrays .
implements classes and methods for large - scale snp association studies
affymetrix spike - in langmuir isotherm data analysis tool
the package contains functions that can be used to compare expression measures on different array platforms .
a set of tools to work with alternative splicing
the splots package provides the plotscreen function for the visualization of for high - throughput assays in microtitre plate or chamber slide format .
spot segmentation via model - based clustering and gridding for blocks within microarray slides
this package contains an implementation of the s - score algorithm
functions for computing and displaying sample size information for gene expression arrays .
the stam package performs a biologically structured classification of microarray profiles according to clinical phenotypes .
a statistical test is an algorithm for making quantitative decisions to determine which outcomes of a study would lead to a rejection of the null hypothesis for a pre - specified level of significance .
stepwise normalization functions for cdna microarray data .
transcript mapping with high - density oligonucleotide tiling arrays
functions for data analysis and graphical displays for developmental microarray time course data .
topgo package provides tools for testing go terms while accounting for the topology of the go graph .
top scoring pairs for microarray classification
estimation of local false discovery rate
variational bayesian multinomial probit regression with gaussian process priors .
the package implements a method for normalising microarray intensities ,  both between colours within array ,  and between arrays .
this package provides enhancements on the sweave (  )  function in the base package .
an integrated web interface for doing microarray analysis using several of the bioconductor packages .
this packages contains tools to support the construction of tcltk widgets
framework for processing and visualization of chromatographically separated and single - spectra mass spectral data .
processing and analysis of affymetrix oligonucleotide arrays including exon arrays ,  whole genome arrays and plate arrays
quality control of affymetrix genechip expression data and reproducibility analysis of human whole genome chips with the maqc reference datasets .
general linear modeling of fixed - effects models with multiple responses is performed .
the abarray is designed to work with applied biosystems whole genome microarray platform ,  as well as any other platform whose data can be tranformed into expression data matrix .
the acme algorithm is quite straightforward .
acme  ( algorithms for calculating microarray enrichment )  is a set of tools for analysing tiling array chip / chip ,  dnase hypersensitivity ,  or other experiments that result in regions of the genome showing "enrichment" .
expression console™ software supports probe set summarization and chp file generation for 3' expression  ( e .g . ,  genechip® human genome u133 plus 2 .0 array )  ,  gene - level  ( e .g . ,  genechip® human gene 1 .0 st array )  and exon - level arrays  ( e .g . ,  genechip® human exon 1 .0 st array )  .
the ancova global test is a test for the association between expression values and clinical entities .
anova or analysis of variance is a hypothesis testing algorithm which a variable is partitioned into components attributable to different sources of variation .
the affycompatible package provides an interface to affymetrix chip annotation and sample attribute files .
the purpose of this package is to provide a comprehensive and easy - to - use tool for quality assessment and to identify differentially expressed genes in the affymetrix gene expression data .
the affymetrix genechip operating software  ( gcos )  is an operating system software that controls affymetrix instruments ,  acquires data ,  and executes gene expression analysis .
preprocessing of agilent 4x44 array data
functions and classes for de novo prediction of transcription factor binding consensus by heuristic search
bgl implements depth first search ,  breadth first search , dijkstra's ,  bellman ford's and dag , johnson's and floyd warshall's .kruskal's algorithm and prim's algorithm cuthill - mckee's algorithm minimum degree ordering
bayesian models for differential gene expression
the basic local alignment search tool  ( blast )  finds regions of local similarity between sequences .
bpmap is a binary data format specification created by affymetrix where the data is stored in big - endian format .
brb - arraytools is an integrated package for the visualization and statistical analysis of dna microarray gene expression data .
this document describes the process of forging a bsgenome data package .
bzscan is a free java tool for automatic quantification of dna microarrays with radioactive labeling .
this program may be used to read out image data from all scanners of the fujifilm bas series  ( bas1000 ,  bas1500 ,  bas1800 ,  bas2000 ,  bas2500 ,  bas3000 ,  bas5000 )  and the fujifilm fla scanners  ( fla - 2000 ,  fla - 3000 )  .
beadstudio software is a modular analysis tool for genotyping ,  gene expression ,  and methylation applications
this package is dedicated to biclustering analysis which allows to discover sets of genes that have the same expression pattern accross a set of samples
creates classes used in model - view - controller  ( mvc )  design that uses biobase
functions that are needed by many other packages or which replace r functions
software and data to support the case studies .
http: /  / www .bioconductor .org / overview
memory efficient string containers ,  string matching algorithms ,  and other utilities ,  for fast manipulation of large biological sequences or set of sequences .
bluefuse  for microarrays is a powerful software solution for the analysis of microarray expression and arraycgh experiments .
this package creates a tabular style data object where most data is stored outside main memory .
this package involves microarray data related methods that utlize bufferedmatrix objects
this package contains functions for normalizing spotted microarray data ,  based on a physically motivated calibration model .
annotation of peaklists generated by xcms ,  rule based annotation of isotopes and adducts ,  eic correlation based tagging of unknown adducts and fragments
the cdf binary format is a binary data format specification created by affymetrix was created for faster access and smaller file size in comparison to the cdf ascii format .
this package provides a comprehensive collection of various microarray - based classification algorithms both from machine learning and statistics .
cma -  it implements k - fold cross validation ,  mcmc cross validation ,  bootstrap and  ( t .test or welch .test or wilcox .test or f .test or kruskal .test or one - step recursive feature elimination or random forest variable importance measure or lasso or elastic net or componentwise boosting ) 
multivariate correlation estimation and statistical inference .
this algorithm offers improved confidence scores ,  quality scores for snp’s and batches ,  higher accuracy on different datasets and better performance .
carmaweb allows the analysis of affymetrix genechip ,  abi microarrays and two color microarrays .
a collection of tools for performing category analysis .
chemminer is an open source compound mining framework .
versarray chipreader systems are highly sensitive laser confocal systems designed for rapid imaging of microarrays .
chipskipper  -  an integrated tool for analysis ,  evaluation and quantitation of  dna micro - array data
a multiscan is an r package for combining multiple scans
the affy package contains functions for exploratory oligonucleotide array analysis .
the affycomp package contains functions that can be used to compare expression measures for affymetrix oligonucleotide arrays .
pcmg -  a bipartite graph in which one set of nodes represents proteins ,  the other set represents complexes ,  and an edge from a protein node to a complex node represents membership of the protein in that complex .
adsplit implements clustering of microarray gene expression profiles according to functional annotations .
statistical methods for identifying differentially expressed genes in replicated cdna microarray experiments .
bcrank is a method that takes a ranked list of genomic regions as input and outputs short dna sequences that are overrepresented in some part of the list .
non - linear functional regression model with both additive and multiplicative error terms
a collection of software tools for dealing with co - citation data .
this software has a series of analytical tools to address the manufacturing ,  detection and data analysis components of a microarray experiment .
slides are scanned using codelink expression scanning software
cyber - t may be used to statistically determine what the probability is that a specific gene is differentially expressed by determining an associated p - value statistic .
this library contains functions that calculate various statistics of differential expression for microarray data ,  including t statistics ,  fold change ,  f statistics ,  sam ,  moderated t and f statistics and b statistics .
this package provides a supervised technique able to identify differentially expressed genes .
a dfp version of a fp  ( fuzzy pattern )  only includes those genes that can serve to differentiate it from the rest of the patterns .this algorithm is based on the discretization of float values  ( gene expression values )  stored in an expressionset object into labels combining 'low' ,  'medium' and 'high'
segments dna copy number data using circular binary segmentation to detect regions with abnormal copy number
ebimage is an r package which provides general purpose functionality for the reading ,  writing ,  processing and analysis of images .
ebarrays provides tools for the analysis of replicated / unreplicated microarray data .
exper 2100 offers powerful data evaluation tools for all available assays ,  automatic and manual integration ,  smear analysis and many assay - specific tools .
facs data is data which describes flow cytometry data sets .
the software automatically finds and places microarray grids ,  rejects outlier pixels ,  accurately determines feature intensities and ratios ,  flags outlier pixels ,  and calculates statistical confidences .
dynamically chooses cutoffs for grouping into present / divergent genes based on the shape of the distribution .
single - user desktop software package for analyzing microarray data from multiple microarray platforms .
incyte gemtools software is an enterprise solution for managing gene expression data using the sql server and oracle relational databases .
the ncbi gene expression omnibus  ( geo )  represents the largest public repository of microarray data .
the ncbi gene expression omnibus  ( geo )  is a public repository of microarray data .
this package is an infrastructure for dealing with hapmap snp reports ,  gwas ,  etc .
computer software for the analysis and comparison of atlas™ nylon and plastic arrays .
the circular binary segmentation  ( cbs )  algorithm divides the genome into regions of equal copy number  .
contains functions and classes that are needed by arraycgh packages .
calls aberrations for array cgh data using a six state mixture model as well as several biological concepts that are ignored by existing algorithms .
dimension reduction for array cgh data with minimal information loss
chp binary format is a binary data format specification created by affymetrix ,  stored in little - endian format and used to store expression ,  resequencing and genotyping results from algorithms implemented in the gcos 1 .2 ,  1 .3 and 1 .4 and brlmm analysis tool software applications .
a set of functions to create and interact with dynamic documents and vignettes .
bcbio provides a shared community resource that handles the data processing component of sequencing analysis ,  providing researchers with more time to focus on the downstream biology .
shinyngs is an r package designed to facilitate downstream analysis of rna - seq and similar expression data with various exploratory plots and data mining tools .
seurat is an r package designed for qc ,  analysis ,  and exploration of single - cell rna - seq data .
graphpad prism is a commercial scientific 2d graphing and statistics software available for both windows and macintosh computers .
salmon is a tool for quantifying the expression of transcripts using rna - seq data .
a licence clause is a component of a licence which defines some aspect of a restriction or conversely permission in how something corresponding to a licence may be legally redistributed ,  partially redistrubed ,  extended ,  modified or otherwise used in some way .
an attribution clause is a license clause intended to provide a specified level of recognition of the licensor as the copyright holder of the work .
derivatives clauses are license clauses which state what requirements on derivative resource ,  if any ,  are attached to a license .
a source code clause is a license clause which states the restrictions placed on the source code for the licensed software ,  if any .
a platform clause is a license clause which states the platform restrictions for the licensed resource ,  if any .
a number of installations clause is a license clause which may limit the number of installations a particular licensee may peform .
a number of users clause is a license clause which may limit the number of users a particular licensee may allow to use the resource .
a time clause is a license clause which states the restrictions placed on the length of time the licensed resource may be used ,  if any .
a usage clause is a license clause which states the restrictions placed on how the licensed resource may be used .
no restrictions on derivatives is a derivatives clause which places no rules or restrictions on how derivative software is created .
restrictions on derivative software is a derivatives clause which allows the creation of derivatives but which also places some kind of restriction on how derivative software may be created .
derivatives not allowed clauses are derivatives clauses which state that  derivative resources are never allowed using the licensed resource .
derivative code same license is a restrictive derivatives clause where derivative software must be released under the same license .
a source code available clause is a source code clause which states that the source code for the licensed software is available to the licensee .
a source code unavailable clause is a source code clause which states that the source code for the licensed software is not available to the licensee .
platform restricted is a platform clause which places restrictions on which platform the licensed resource may be installed on .
platform unrestrictred is a platform clause which does not place any restrictions on which type of platform the resource may be licensed for .
a number of installations restricted clause is a number of installations clause which restricts the number of times the resource may be installed by any given licensee .
a number of installations unrestricted clause is a number of installations clause which does not restrict the number of times the resource may be installed by any given licensee .
a number of users restricted clause is a number of users clause which restricts the number of users the resource may have for a particular licensee .
a number of users unrestricted clause is a number of users clause which does not restrict the number of users of the licensed resource .
time for use restricted is a time clause which places restrictions on the length of time the licensed resource may be used .
time for use unrestrictred is a time clause which does not place any restrictions on the length of time the resource may be licensed for .
usage unrestricted is a usage clause which places no restrictions on how the licensed resource may be used .
usage restricted is a usage clause which places restrictions on how the licensed resource may be used .
non - commercial use only is a usage restricted clause which restricts the use of the licensed resource only to licensees who are not commercial entites .
academic use only is a usage restricted clause which restricts the use of the licensed resource to academic licensees only .
derivative code linked same license is a restrictive derivatives clause where code may only be linked to in derivative software that is released under the same license .
the mode of interaction with a piece of software .
a stochastic algorithm for population pharmacology modeling
a dynamic bayesian network model is a bayesian network which relates variables to each other over adjacent time steps .
in mathematics ,  an ordinary differential equation or ode is an equation containing a function of one independent variable and its derivatives .
gillespie's stochastic simulation algorithm is an algorithm which generates a statistically correct trajectory  ( possible solution )  of a stochastic equation .
monte carlo is a discrete stochastic simulation algorithm and an estimation procedure algorithm .
differential algebraic equations  ( daes )  are a general form of  ( systems of )  differential equations for vector–valued functions in one independent variable .
a partial differential equation  ( pde )  is a differential equation that contains unknown multivariable functions and their partial derivatives .
a spreadsheet data format is one in which data is organised into a matrix  ( or matrices )  of columns and rows to form cells in which values are entered .
a spreadsheet data format designed for microsoft excel .
a spreadsheet data format in which the structure of the data is described using xml ,  such as column and row headers and cell identity .
the resource description framework  ( rdf )  is a general - purpose language for representing information in the web .
a serialisation of rdf into an xml format .
dwg  ( "drawing" )  is a binary file format used for storing two and three dimensional design data and metadata
dxf  ( drawing interchange format ,  or drawing exchange format )  is a cad data file format developed by autodesk for enabling data interoperability between autocad and other programs .
the bmp file format is a raster graphics image file format used to store bitmap digital images ,  independently of the display device  ( such as a graphics adapter )  .
computer graphics metafile  ( cgm )  is a free and open international standard file format for 2d vector graphics ,  raster graphics ,  and text ,  and is defined by iso / iec 8632 .
pdf is an open standard for document exchange .
tiff is a flexible ,  adaptable file format for handling images and data within a single file ,  by including the header tags  ( size ,  definition ,  image - data arrangement ,  applied image compression )  defining the image's geometry .
jpeg is a lossy file format for storing images
png is a bitmapped image format and video codec that employs lossless data compression .
the graphics interchange format  ( gif )  is a bitmap image format .
a raster image is a format for representing a rectangular grid of dots  ( pixels )  which contains information on the specific colour of each pixel .
a vector image is a collection of connected lines and curves that produce objects .
postscript is a format used for describing documents .
tex is a format for documents written in the document markup language and document preparation system latex .
a format specification for data used or produced by outliner software
a proprietary format for documents created and edited using omnioutliner outliner software , 
opml  ( outline processor markup language )  is an xml format for outlines
jpeg 2000 is a compression standard enabling both lossless and lossy storage .
a file format for word processing documents for microsoft word .
a source code file format which is specified to be used with the java programming language .
a format in which a  .java file has been compiled into bytecode using a java compiler and which is specified to be executed using the java virtual machine .
an xml - based file format for use with the copasi software .
the web ontology language  ( owl )  in xml serialization
web ontology language version 2 in xml serialization
tab delimited file format is a plain text file format where each field value of a record is separated from the next by a tab stop character .
sif stands for simple interaction format ,  and is a text format invented for cytoscape .
gml stands for graph markup language ,  and is a standard network file format ;  supported by multiple generic network software packages
xgmml stands for extensible graph markup and modelling language ,  and it is a xml standard ;  similar to but preferred over gml .
a type of data which defines interactions between items in the file .
a knowledge representation role is a role borne by a data format which utilizes formalisms to make complex systems easier to design and build .
the cdf ascii format is an ascii data format specification created by affymetrix similar to the windows ini format .
bar is a binary data format specification created by affymetrix where the data is stored in big - endian format .
cel ascii format is ascii data format specification created by affymetrix similar to the windows ini format .
affymetrix - compliant data is data produced in a format compatible with affymetrix software .
the flow cytometry data file standard provides the specifications needed to completely describe flow cytometry data sets within the confines of the file containing the experimental data .
fcs3 .0 is version 3 .0 of the data file standard for flow cytometry .
a nucleic acid sequence that indicate the order of nucleotides within some dna .
data about primary biological sequence information ,  such as dna neucleotide sequences .
data which contains information about amino acid sequences of proteins .
nucleotide - nucleotide blast  ( blastn )  is a type of blast software that takes a given dna query and returns the most similar dna sequences from the dna database that the user specifies .
tabix indexes a tab - delimited genome position file and creates an index file when region is absent from the command - line .
genomedata provides a way to store and access large - scale functional genomics data in a format which is both space - efficient and allows efficient random - access .
the bedgraph format is a line - oriented text file format .
these parameter files come in multiple types  ( e .g .
mathml 2 .0 is an xml format which is a low - level specification for describing mathematics as a basis for machine to machine communication .
fieldml is an xml - based language for describing time - varying and spatially - varying fields .
wkn is a collective name for a spreadsheet format created for lotus 1 - 2 - 3 .
a web user interface is a graphical user interface which is loaded and run via a web browser rather than within the user's operating system .
a desktop graphical user interface is a graphical user interface which is loaded and run within the user's operating system rather than via a web browser .
a soap service is a web service which provides a standard ,  extensible ,  composable framework for packaging and exchanging xml messages .
a rest service is a web service in which the primary purpose of the service is to manipulate xml representations of web resources using a uniform set of "stateless" operations .
a web service in which calls invoked return json .
a web service is a software interface which works as a method of communication between two electronic devices over the world wide web and which is provided at a particular network address .
https: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / graphical_user_interface ,  accessed 6 june 2013 .
a command - line interface is a means of interacting with a computer program where the user  ( or client )  issues commands to the program in the form of successive lines of text  ( command lines )  .
an application programming interface is a set of routines ,  protocols ,  and tools for building software applications .
distribution clauses are license clauses which state the requirements on how the licensed resource is redistributed .
distribution restricted is a distribution clause which places restrictions on how the licensed resource may be distributed by third parties .
distribution unrestricted is a distribution clause which states that the licensed resource can be redistributed by a third party in whatever manner that party wishes .
derivatives allowed clauses are derivatives clauses which state that  derivative resources are allowed using the licensed resource .
this is a free software license under the definition of "free" by the gnu project ,  and is compatible with version 3 of the gnu gpl .
the academic free license is a free software license under the definition of "free" by the gnu project ,  is not copyleft ,  and is incompatible with the gnu gpl .
this is the original bsd license with the advertising clause and another clause removed .
a licensed is a free license according to gnu if the users have the four essential freedoms:      the freedom to run the program ,  for any purpose  ( freedom 0 )  .
gnu gpl compatible license type is a gnu project free license type which is also compatible with one or more versions of the gnu gpl
copyleft is a derivative code same license clause which says that anyone who redistributes the software ,  with or without changes ,  must pass along the freedom to further copy and change it .
the gnu gpl v3 is the latest version of the gnu gpl: a free software license ,  and a copyleft license .
the gnu gpl v2 is an earlier version of the gnu gpl: a free software license ,  and a copyleft license .
cc0 is a public domain dedication from creative commons .
cc by 2 .0 is a non - copyleft free  ( free by the definition of the gnu project )  license which lets others distribute ,  remix ,  tweak ,  and build upon your work ,  even commercially ,  as long as they credit you for the original creation .
attribution required is an attribution clause which states that attribution of the type specified in the license must be provided whenever the resource is used .
cc by - sa 2 .0 is a copyleft free  ( free by the definition of the gnu project )  license which lets others remix ,  tweak ,  and build upon your work even for commercial purposes ,  as long as they credit you and license their new creations under the identical terms .
lppl v1 .3 is a free software license  ( by the defintion of the gnu project )  ,  with less stringent requirements on distribution than lppl 1 .2 .
lppl v1 .2 is a free software license  ( by the defintion of the gnu project )  ,  this license is an incomplete statement of the distribution terms for latex .
mpl v2 .0 a free software license as defined by the gnu project .
the artistic license v 2 .0 is a free software license by the definition of the gnu project and compatible with the gpl thanks to the relicensing option in section 4 ( c )  ( ii )   ( as compared with the artistic license 1 .0 )  .
purchase cost is a license clause which states whether there is a cost involved with a particular usage or licensing of a resource .
free is a type of purchase cost clause which ,  when applied ,  means that there is no cost for the users of the resource to which the license is attached .
not free is a type of purchase cost clause which ,  when applied ,  means that there is a cost for the users of the resource to which the license is attached .
a license which allows any form of usage of the artifact .
the cc by 4 .0 license is a creative commons license .
attribution not required is an attribution clause which states that no attribution need be provided whenever the resource is used .
cc by 2 .0 uk is a uk - specific non - copyleft free  ( free by the definition of the gnu project )  license which lets others distribute ,  remix ,  tweak ,  and build upon your work ,  even commercially ,  as long as they credit you for the original creation .
this is the latest version of the lgpl: a free software license ,  but not a strong copyleft license ,  because it permits linking with nonfree modules .
this is a free software ,  copyleft license .
this is the previous version of the lgpl: a free software license ,  but not a strong copyleft license ,  because it permits linking with nonfree modules .
cc by 2 .1 jp is a japan - specific non - copyleft free  ( free by the definition of the gnu project )  license which lets others distribute ,  remix ,  tweak ,  and build upon your work ,  even commercially ,  as long as they credit you for the original creation .
cc by 2 .5 is a non - copyleft free  ( free by the definition of the gnu project )  license which lets others distribute ,  remix ,  tweak ,  and build upon your work ,  even commercially ,  as long as they credit you for the original creation .
cc by 3 .0 au is an australia - specific non - copyleft free  ( free by the definition of the gnu project )  license which lets others distribute ,  remix ,  tweak ,  and build upon your work ,  even commercially ,  as long as they credit you for the original creation .
cc by 3 .0 is a non - copyleft free  ( free by the definition of the gnu project )  license which lets others distribute ,  remix ,  tweak ,  and build upon your work ,  even commercially ,  as long as they credit you for the original creation .
cc by 3 .0 us is a us - specific non - copyleft free  ( free by the definition of the gnu project )  license which lets others distribute ,  remix ,  tweak ,  and build upon your work ,  even commercially ,  as long as they credit you for the original creation .
cc by - nd 3 .0 is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on distributing modified versions .
cc by - nd 4 .0 is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on distributing modified versions .
cc by - nc 3 .0 is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on charging money for copies .
cc by - nc 4 .0 is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on charging money for copies .
cc by - nc - nd 3 .0 is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on distributing modified versions and on charging money for copies .
cc by - nc - nd 2 .5 is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on distributing modified versions and on charging money for copies .
cc by - nc - nd 2 .5 ch is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on distributing modified versions and on charging money for copies .
cc by - nc - nd 4 .0 is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on distributing modified versions and on charging money for copies .
cc by - nc - sa 2 .5 is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on charging money for copies .
cc by - nc - sa 3 .0 is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on charging money for copies .
cc by - nc - sa 3 .0 us is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on charging money for copies .
cc by - nc - sa 2 .5 in is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on charging money for copies .
cc by - nc - sa 4 .0 is a nonfree license ,  as there are restrictions on charging money for copies .
cc by - sa 2 .1 jp is a copyleft free  ( free by the definition of the gnu project )  license which lets others remix ,  tweak ,  and build upon your work even for commercial purposes ,  as long as they credit you and license their new creations under the identical terms .
cc by - sa 3 .0 is a copyleft free  ( free by the definition of the gnu project )  license which lets others remix ,  tweak ,  and build upon your work even for commercial purposes ,  as long as they credit you and license their new creations under the identical terms .
cc by - sa 3 .0 us is a copyleft free  ( free by the definition of the gnu project )  license which lets others remix ,  tweak ,  and build upon your work even for commercial purposes ,  as long as they credit you and license their new creations under the identical terms .
cc by - sa 4 .0 is a copyleft free  ( free by the definition of the gnu project )  license which lets others remix ,  tweak ,  and build upon your work even for commercial purposes ,  as long as they credit you and license their new creations under the identical terms .
the odbl v1 .0 allows a user of the databases to share ,  create and adapt the database .
the dbcl v1 .0 allows a user of the database contents to share ,  create and adapt the contents .
the emblem elm academic license was developed as the license for the elm  ( eukaryotic linear motif )  resource .
the flowrepository open access terms of use license allows any individual to access the licensed product  ( originally the flow cytometry data repository )  for any purpose .
the odbl v1 .0 allows a user of the databases to share ,  create and adapt the database .
the odc public domain dedication and licence is a document intended to allow you to freely share ,  modify ,  and use this work for any purpose and without any restrictions .
this is the original bsd license ,  modified by removal of the advertising clause .
a vendor - specific license is a license which was ,  at least originally ,  created by a specific organization to be used just on the resources created within that organization .
the nida nih data access policy specifies under what legal requirements nida nih data may be accessed .
the addgene terms of use specifies under what legal requirements addgene data may be accessed .
the cas information use policy specifies under what legal requirements cas information may be accessed .
the created contents and works provided under this license by cellfinder are subject to the german copyright law .
the lincs data policy is a license which allows redistribution and derivative works as long as the original data is attributed correctly .
the genenetwork conditions of use describes the data licensing for the resource covered .
the gmd academic license is a vendor - specific license which allows the access and use of the licensed data for non - commercial purposes ,  as long as the appropriate attribution is used and copyright notices retained .
the geneprof academic license is a vendor - specific license which allows the access and use of the licensed resource for non - commercial purposes .
the european medicines agency copyright states that the agency is the owner of copyright and other intellectual property rights for documents and other content published on their website .
mirtabase data license is a simple vendor license which allows academic users to make use of the data for free .
gbif data sharing agreement is a simple vendor license which allows all users to make use of the data for free ,  as long as the source of the data is properly attributed .
iupac / inchi - trust inchi licence no .1 .0 is a vendor license which allows all users to make use of the resource ,  including the source code ,  for free ,  as long as its source is properly attributed .
the labome copyright makes the contents of their resource freely available for browsing .
the ctd legal notice and terms of data use specifies under what legal requirements the ctd data may be accessed .
loinc relma terms of use is a vendor license which allows all users to make use of the data for free ,  as long as the source of the data is properly attributed .
miaca full copyright is a vendor - specific license which allows the document it references to be copied and furnished to others ,  and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be prepared ,  copied ,  published and distributed ,  in whole or in part ,  without restriction of any kind ,  provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all such copies and derivative works .
the orcid mit - style license is identical to the mit license ,  except for the addition of the following two clauses: 1 .
the nih genomic data sharing policy specifies under what legal requirements nih genomic data may be accessed .
the facebase data access policy specifies under what legal requirements facebase data may be accessed .
the orcid terms of use is a vendor - specific license for describing how the data in the orcid resource may be used .
the ppdb academic licens specifies under what legal requirements ppdb data may be accessed .
the scicrunch terms and conditions specifies under what legal requirements scicrunch data may be accessed .
the prodom commercial license is a vendor - specific license which allows the access and use of the licensed data for commercial purposes for a fee .
the sbgn open license with attribution is a very simple statement of openness for the sbgn standard and related resources available on its website .
the nlm open license with attribution is a vendor - specific license which is similar to public domain ,  but which requests attribution .
the regenbase terms of use is a vendor - specific license which requires attribution and which does not meet the requirements for open source code ,  as there is a statement saying that the user will not translate ,  reverse engineer ,  decompile or disassemble the system ,  or disclose the system or any underlying information or technology to any third party .
the sabio - rk non - commercial purpose license covers use of the database for non - commercial purpose only ,  and appropriate attribution must be given .
the terms of use for embl - ebi services reflect embl - ebi’s commitment to openscience through its mission to provide freely available online services ,  databases and software relating to data contributed from life science experiments to the largest possible community .
the ucum terms of use is a vendor - specific license which allows the resource it references to be used for commercial or non - commercial purposes without restriction of any kind ,  provided that appropriate attribution is given .
the umls metathesaurus license is a vendor - specific license which allows redistribution  ( as part of a larger computer application )  as long as the original data is attributed correctly and a summary of data use provided each year .
the mhas data policy is a vendor - specific license which requires that users attribute the data properly .
the alfred copyright is a vendor - specific license which states that the resource is freely available to the scientific community for statistical analysis ,  the only condition being that attribution is required .
commercial use only is a usage restricted clause which restricts the use of the licensed resource only to licensees who are commercial entites .
fee - based commercial license is a license which ,  among its license clauses ,  states that commercial entities may use the resource for a fee .
the brenda license is a vendor - specific license which allows access to the official website and its data free of charge .
the tcga data use certification is a vendor - specific license which specifies the certification which must be officially agreed to before data may be accessed .
non - commercial no - fee license is a license which ,  among its license clauses ,  states that non - commercial entities may use the resource without a purchase or usage cost .
drugbank is offered to the public as a freely available resource .
the ucsc genome browser commercial software license is a vendor - specific license which allows the access and use of the licensed data for commercial purposes under specific restrictions for a fee .
permission required for commercial use is a clause which restricts the use of the licensed resource only to licensees who are commercial entites which have received explicit permission in the manner stipulated by the resource .
permission required for derivative work is a clause which restricts the production of derivative work based on the licensed resource only to licensees who have received explicit permission in the manner stipulated by the resource .
data are to be used only for purposes of research and education .
the riken copyright is a vendor - specific license which states that all text ,  photographs ,  diagrams ,  and other materials on their website are copyrighted by riken unless explicitly specified otherwise on the website .
the design science license is a license intended to be a general "copyleft" that can be applied to any kind of work that has protection under copyright .
the university of concordia terms of use is a vendor - specific license which states that no document appearing on this website or any other website owned ,  operated or controlled by concordia may be copied ,  sold ,  reproduced ,  republished ,  downloaded ,  posted ,  transmitted or distributed by any means with the exception of downloading or printing the contents of the site for personal ,  non - commercial use .
all ome formats and software are freely available ,  and all omero and bio - formats source code is available under gnu public "copyleft" licenses or through commercial license from glencoe software .
the immport conditions of use is a vendor - specific license which allows the use of immport data for any legal purpose except for those prohibited elsewhere in this agreement .
distribution with notices is a distribution clause in which distribution is unrestricted ,  except that all distributions must retain certain licence information  ( e .g . ,  copyright notices )  .
this is a lax ,  permissive non - copyleft free software license ,  compatible with the gnu gpl .
the gnu lesser general public license  ( lgpl )  is a free software license published by the free software foundation  ( fsf )  .
the artistic license v1 .0 is not considered a free software license by the definition of the gnu project because it is too vague ;  some passages are &quot ; too clever for their own good&quot ;  ,  and their meaning is not clear .
the eclipse public license is similar to the common public license .
the modified bsd is a software license based on he original freebsd license ,  modified by removal of the advertising clause .
opl v1 .0 is not a free software license according to the definition of the gnu project because it requires sending every published modified version to a specific initial developer .
development status is an information content entity which indicates the maturity of a software entity within the context of the software life cycle .
alpha is a development status which is applied to software by the developer / publisher during initial development and testing .
beta is a development status which is generally applied to software by the developer / publisher once the majority of features have been implemented ,  but when the software may still contain bugs or cause crashes or data loss .
a release candidate  ( rc )  is a beta version with potential to be a final product ,  which is ready to release unless significant bugs emerge .
live is a development status which is applied to software that has been designated as suitable for production environments by the developer / publisher .
sofware is no longer being supplied by the developers / publishers
an updated version of the software is available .
the first release of a piece of software .
the latest release of a piece of software .
software has developers actively maintaining it  ( fixing bugs ) 
manage laboratory information such is commonly performed by lims software .
the objective of performing the actions of an operation system such as managing the software running a computer and the interactions with the system resources and hardware .
text editing is the objective of editing plain text files .
an averaging objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to perform mean calculations on the input of the data transformation .
a center calculation objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to calculate the center of an input data set .
a class discovery objective  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to organize input data   ( typically vectors of attributes )  into classes ,  where the number of classes and their specifications are not known a priori .
a class prediction objective  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to create a predictor from training data through a machine learning technique .
a correction is where the aim is to correct for error ,  noise or other impairments to the input of the data transformation or derived from the data transformation itself .
a background correction is where the aim is to remove irrelevant contributions from the measured signal ,  e .g .
an error correction is a data transformation objective where the aim is to remove  ( correct for )  erroneous contributions arising from the input data ,  or the transformation itself .
curve fitting is a data transformation in which the aim is to find a curve which matches a series of data points and possibly other constraints .
a normalization is a data transformation objective where the aim is to remove systematic sources of variation to put the data on equal footing in order to create a common base for comparisons .
a decision tree induction objective is a data transformation objective in which a tree - like graph of edges and nodes is created and from which the selection of each branch requires that some type of logical decision is made .
james malone
a feature extraction objective is a data transformation objective where the aim of the data transformation is to generate quantified values from a scanned image .
the process of publishing software .
the process of developing software ,  typically involving the design ,  implementation and testing of software .
an ensemble specification denotes a type of generalization which is an output of an execution of a ensemble algorithm .
clustering algorithm is a data mining algorithm that solves a clustering task and as a result produces a clustering .
a pattern p on type t specifies a boolean function on objects of type t ,  i .e . ,  has the signature p :: t → bool .
clustering specification is a single generalization specification is a generalization specification and denotes a type of generalization that models the mapping of a set of objects s of type t from s to a set of natural numbers {1 ,  . . .k} .
predictive modeling algorithm is a data mining algorithm that solves a predictive modeling task and as a result produces a predictive model .
pattern discovery algorithm is a data mining algorithm that solves a pattern discovery task and as a result produces a set of patterns .
a predictive model m for types td ,  tc specifies a function that takes an object of type td and returns one of type tc ,  i .e . ,  has the signature m :: td → tc .
a probability distribution d on type t specifies a mapping from objects of type t to non - negative reals ,  i .e . ,  has the signature d :: t → r0 +  .
a single generalization specification is a generalization specification and denotes a type of generalization that is produced by a single generalization data mining algorithm .
