an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant that is a bearer of quality and realizable entity entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
a continuant that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
a molecular entity that can transfer  (  \ "donate \ " )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
an alkaline earth metal atom that has formula ca .
organooxygen compounds that are salts or esters of carbonic acid ,  h2co3 .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
a chalcogen that has formula o .
a carbon group element atom that has formula si .
a carbon group element atom that has formula c .
a chalcocarbonic acid that has formula ch2o3 .
a calcium cation that has formula ca .
a silicon oxide made up of linear triatomic molecules in which a silicon atom is covalently bonded to two oxygens .
a carbonate salt that has formula co3 .ca .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a nutrient is a chemical element needed by all life forms .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an alkaline earth molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkaline earth metal .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
a negative ion consisting solely of carbon and oxygen  atoms ,  and therefore having the general formula cxoy ( n -  )  for some integers x ,  y and n .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a carbon oxoanion that has formula co3 .
in general ,  a mineral is a chemical substance that is normally crystalline formed and has been formed as a result of geological processes .
a s - block element atom that has formula h .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a metal cation with a valence of two .
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
a biogenic mineral comprised of hydrated silica .
any biogenic substance that has undergone transformation through the action of geological processes .
any chemical substance produced by life processes .
a mineral comprised of silicon dioxide ,  with variable amounts of water in its formula .
an inorganic cation with a valency of two .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any substance which is used to neutralise stomach acidity .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
a food additive that imparts colour to food .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
a food additive that is used to make or keep fruit or vegetable tissues firm and crisp .
any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
female germ cell is a germ cell that supports female gamete production .
a female germ cell that has entered meiosis .
a cell that is within the developmental lineage of gametes and is able to pass along its genetic material to offspring .
a cell that moves by its own activities .
a cell that lacks a nucleus .
any cell capable of ingesting particulate matter via phagocytosis .
a cell that is specialised to accumulate a particular substance ( s )  .
a cell whose primary function is to protect the organism .
the reproductive cell in multicellular organisms .
a cell containing at least one nucleus .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface and of some cytoplasmic parts .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which cells take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
the evagination of a membrane ,  resulting in formation of a vesicle .
an endocytosis process that results in the engulfment of external particulate material by phagocytes .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the infolding of a membrane .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vesicle .
a cellular transport process in which transported substances are moved in membrane - bounded vesicles ;  transported substances are enclosed in the vesicle lumen or located in the vesicle membrane .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
a nonmembrane - bound oligomeric protein complex that participates in bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
a stable macromolecular complex composed  ( only )  of two or more polypeptide subunits along with any covalently attached molecules  ( such as lipid anchors or oligosaccharide )  or non - protein prosthetic groups  ( such as nucleotides or metal ions )  .
any constituent part of an organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
any constituent part of a membrane ,  a double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells ,  and ,  in eukaryotes ,  many organelles ;  may be a single or double lipid bilayer ;  also includes associated proteins .
any constituent part of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
any constituent part of the plasma membrane ,  the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
any constituent part of a cell projection ,  a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a biological process that involves only one organism .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore ,  involving a single organism .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the part of a cell encompassing the cell cortex ,  the plasma membrane ,  and any external encapsulating structures .
a membrane that is a  ( regional )  part of the plasma membrane .
any protein complex that is part of a membrane .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane .
a localization which involves only one organism .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
sponge bodies consist of jelly - like mesohyl sandwiched between two thin layers of cells .
an extracellular matrix enclosed by pinacoderm and choanoderm ,  the mesohyl is composed primarily of galectin ,  collagen ,  fibronectin - like molecules ,  dermatopontin ,  and other polypeptides .
a cell that lines the interior of asconoid ,  syconoid and leuconoid body type sponges that contain a central flagellum surrounded by a collar of microvilli which are connected by a thin membrane .
amoeba - like cells that move slowly through the mesohyl and secrete collagen fibres .
large cell with numerous rod - like inclu sions parallel to the long axis of the cell containing acid mucopolysaccharides
posterior non - ciliated larval cell that will differentiate into a pinacocyte .
anterior ciliated cell of the sponge larva that will differentiate into a choanocyte or spicule - forming cell
spicule secreting cells ,  found in sponges .
in addition to or instead of sclerocytes ,  demosponges have spongocytes that secrete a form of collagen that polymerizes into spongin ,  a thick fibrous material that stiffens the mesohyl .
conduct signals and cause parts of the animal to contract .
cells that acts as sponges' equivalent of an immune system .
amoeba - like large cells with large nuclei that are totipotent .
siliceous or calcareous entities that form the mineral skeleton of a sponge
an excretory structure in the living sponge ,  a large opening to the outside through which the current of water exits after passing through the spongocoel .
large ,  central cavity of sponges .
any opening in the exopinacoderm through which water enters the sponge .
flat cells found on the outermost layer of sponges .
a pore through which water is drawn from the outside into one of the saclike chambers formed by the evagination of the body wall .
any cavity lined by choanocytes and located between inhalant and exhalant systems [ portol ]  .
asconoid is one of three possible body plans for sponges ,  which form the phylum porifera in kingdom animalia and subkingdom parazoa which means that they do not have a definite body shape .
sponge in which the body wall is pleated .
the  \ "leuconid \ " pattern boosts pumping capacity further by filling the interior almost completely with mesohyl that contains a network of chambers lined with choanocytes and connected to each other and to the water intakes and outlet by tubes .
skeletal substance in demospongiae made up of collagen microfibrils of ~10 fim diameter [ portol ]  .
a spicule composed largely of calcite having a radiate form ,  the number of rays being either two  ( diactine )  ,  three  ( triactine )  ,  or four  ( tetractine )  .
a trab is structural element within a sponge formed by the fusion of dendroclones .
the pinacoderm is the outer most layer of cells  ( pinacocytes )  in the phylum porifera  ( sponges )  ,  similar to the epidermis in other organisms .
cell that surrounds a pore  ( ostium )  .
a pore in each of the saclike chambers formed by the evagination of the body wall ,  through which water passes into the excurrent canals .
small spicule ,  often ornate in shape .
a large spicule ,  visible to the naked eye .
massive release of gametes .
prefix meaning spined ,  as in acanthostyle or acanthomicrorhabd
spicule having two to six stout spined rays ,  typically surrounding the point of insertion of the root tuft in hyalonema species .
a megasclere echinating the primary skeleton .
regularly anisotropic reticulation with ascending  ( primary and radial )  fibers or tracts and interconnecting fibers or tracts about equal in thickness
pointed like a needle ;  adjective referring to the extremities of megascleres .
a centered ray containing an axis or axial canal .
elongated contractile cell often grouped in sphincter -  like structure around the osculum ,  below the sieve -  plates ,  and around the large exhalant canals .
creating substrate or support by cementing together a mixture of foreign material ,  such as sand ,  shell ,  or rock .
one of the thin ,  wing - like or spatulate structures in each recurved portion of a chela .
skeleton arranged around choanosomal cavities
paleontological term for longitudinal ,  tunnellike canal opening to the exhalant surface by slit - like apertures .
diactin with spines recurved toward the center
without definite shape .to be rejected ,  vague term .
a microsclere with microspined rays radiating from both ends of a shaft ;  the rays are shorter than the shaft
hollow ,  ovoid larva ,  with anterior flagellated and posterior nonflagellated groups of cells ;  typical of calcaronea
dumbbell - shaped microsclere with ends developed into umbel - like expansions .
a double triaene with a short rhabd bearing two opposed cladomes
tetraclone resembling an amphitriaene .
tracts ,  lines ,  or fibers are interconnected
a triaene in which the clads are sharply curved backward
desma without central axis .
anchor - like spicule ,  protruding free from the basal part of the sponge ;  derived from diactine ,  triactine ,  or tetractine spicules ,  with terminal rays or spines ,  curved in the proximal direction along the main ray
an isochela with three or more free alae  ( at each end )  in the form of recurved processes shaped like anchor claws  ( unguiferous )  or anchor blades  ( spatuliferous )  ;  with two incipient lateral alae fused with the shaft over their entire length and a gently curved ,  not abruptly arched shaft .
sharply bent ;  referring to overall spicule shape ,  as in oxea or sigmas .
prefix meaning unequal ;  generally referring to the ends of a spicule ;  see anisochela .
a chela with unequal ends
reticulate skeleton with primary and secondary tracts ,  lines ,  or fibers
to be rejected .see astroclone ,  sphaeroclone .
pole directed forward when larva is swimming .
an euaster with tuberculate ,  denticulate ,  or spined ,  sometimes digitate ,  expansions at the ray tips  ( chondrilla grandis ) 
prefix meaning thorny .
a special form of spiraster  ( genus anthosig mella ;  = cliona )  ;  to be rejected .
type of choanocyte chamber that connects directly with the inhalant canals through prosopyles and with the exhalant canal through an apopyle extended by an aphodus .
small exhalant canal leading from the apopyle to an exhalant canal  ( ap in figure )  .
the fourth actine of a tetractine that is joined to the basal triradiate system
exhalant canal in fossil sponges .
endopinacocyte lining the exhalant canal  ( ai in figure )  .
surface lined by apopinacocytes .
to be rejected ;  in fossil sponges ,  an opening forming an exit from an apochete  ( = osculum )  .
cell surrounding the apopyle and located between the choanocytes and the apopinacocytes  ( ay in figure )  .
in fossil sponges ,  canal closed at the outer end  ( cf .
the entire water - conducting system between the ostia and the oscula ,  which comprises the inhalant system ,  choanocyte chambers ,  and the exhalant system
erect ,  branching habit ,  tree - like in appearance  ( axinella polypoides ) 
an isochela with three free alae and the shaft characteristically curved outward ,  often bow - shaped .
surface covered by numerous circular ectosomal areas  ( hamigera ) 
choanoskeleton composed of several rows of similar spicules
aquiferous system in which the internal cavity of the sponge is entirely lined by choanocytes
an elongate - compressed microsclere in which the numerous rays are fused and end in minute spinose projections  ( erylus spp . ) 
hexaster with numerous s - shaped terminal rays whose external curved ends form several successive tiers
desma made up of radiating arms
traces of the excurrent canal system on or within a rigid skeleton that appear as radiating or star - shaped grooves .
adjective referring to the extremities of a megasclere .
spicules surrounding the atrium .
dermalia belonging wholly or at least primarily to the outer bounding skin ,  without actin protruding inside the sponge body
gastralia with one actin protruding into the atrium
the organic core around which a siliceous spicule is organized .
a type of skeletal organization in which some components are condensed to form a central region or axis
structure with a dense core of parallel fibers or strands fanning out toward the periphery of a sponge see also plumose or plumoreticulate .
cell containing prokaryotic microsymbionts
the dense area of compacted spongin surrounding the central zone in pithed fibers
a spongin layer covering the substratum
the three rays of a tetractine that correspond to those of a triactine
spicules protruding from lower sponge surface ;  sometimes called root spicules ,  anchors ,  barbed basalia ;  in some species ,  forming a root tuft
rigid basal skeletal framework .
pinacocyte affixing the sponge to the substratum by external secretion of a collagenous matrix  ( bs in figure )  .
a modified anisochela with fused alae connected by a short curved shaft  ( genus iophon ) 
a type of microsclere with a straight shaft and umbrella - shaped ends
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
adjective referring to the extremities of megascleres .
ectosomal brush of spicules perpendicular to the surface of the sponge ,  with pointed ends outward .
shortened arm of a trider .
spreading out in branches  ( see also arborescent and repent )  .
an asexual reproductive body composed of various types of cells  ( e .g . ,  tethya spp . ,  axinella damicornis )  .
regular triactine whose center is not in the same plane as the extremities of the recurved rays .
cup shaped  ( poterion neptuni ) 
equiangular tetraxon with equal rays
hexaster with stout main rays and with terminal rays directed outward
spicules lining canals
a special form of lophocalthrop characterized by branching ,  multispined rays
modified ,  ellipsoid isochela with wing - like extensions on one  ( the bottom )  side  ( genus cercidochela ) 
modified choanocyte that transports a captured spermatozoid to an oocyte
nonflagellated cells arranged in tetraradial fashion in the amphiblastula of calcaronea
interlocked or adjacent spicules firmly linked by calcareous cement ;  the cement may be restricted to the junction area or may progressively encase the entire spicule
point of union of the three rays of a triactine or of a basal triradiate system .
single cell located at the apopyle of choanocyte chambers
a triaene with three clads and two small rhabds  ( genus triptolemus ) 
spicule with a median tyle  ( globular swelling )  .
a microsclere with a curved shaft and recurved ala at each end .
tetractine with the unpaired ray of the basal system and the apical ray in the same alignment
dendroclone with a very short central shaft .
microsclere composed of two crossed sigmas  ( genus chiastosia ) 
cell that buds anucleate outgrowth called collar body ;  in hexactinellida
hexactinellida equivalent of the choanocyte chambers of demospongiae and calcarea .
surface lined by choanocytes .
skeleton of the part of the sponge that contains choanocytes
skeleton of the main body ,  supporting the canal system and responsible for the form of the sponge .
the internal region of a sponge ,  including the choanocyte chambers .
predominantly radiate ,  occasionally confused arrangement of megascleres including triaenes with cladome outward ,  lacking spongin ,  and commonly with a cortex .
hollow larva ,  entirely flagellated ,  with a central ring of pigmented cells ;  typical of homoscleromorpha
any ray or axial branch containing an axis or axial canal confluent with that of the protoclad or protorhabd in any type of spicule ;  term chiefly used in triaene spicules .
the clads of a triaene or triaene - derivative spicule .
monaxon megasclere ,  one end with knobs ,  the other with hooks
resembling open latticework  ( clathrina coriacea ) 
polyhedral arrangement of fibroreticulate sheets
isodictyal or subisodictyal arrangement of fibers cored and / or echinated by styles in the family microcionidae
club shaped  ( rhizaxinella pyrifera ) 
a ring - shaped microsclere  ( genus merlia )  .
sceptrule with one terminal umbel or with terminal anchor teeth
a chela with the ends  ( anterior alae )  very close to each other  ( e .g . ,  clathria echinata ) 
ray - like arm that is entirely anaxial .
discohexactin with long ,  dendate ,  umbel - like structures
hollow larva composed of an envelope of morphologically similar equipotent cells ,  to which a few larger nonflagellated cells may be added at the posterior pole .
term for cnidarians ,  used for the solid skeleton in stromatoporoids ;  to be rejected for sponges in favor of rigid calcareous skeleton .
a dense band of intercellular collagen fibrils ,  which has a skeletal role in some sponges  ( e .g . ,  genus chondrosia ) 
anucleate choanocyte in hexactinellids .
cell with branching pseudopods / cytoplasmic strands ,  involved in the secretion of collagen  ( co in figure )  .
radial skeletal element in stromatoporoids ,  with a greater degree of continuity and larger than pillars .
shape of solid ,  erect cylinder  ( petrosia capsa ) 
parenchymalia located close and parallel to principalia
a curved microstyle
several fibers merged or intricately interconnected
easily squeezed .
irregularly positioned megascleres .
adjective referring to the extremities of megascleres .
surface with numerous cone - shaped projections raised up by underlying skeleton  ( dysidea sp . ) 
in cnidarians ,  term for the external skeleton of a polyp ;  to be rejected for sponges in favor of pseudocalyx .
a fiber that incorporates indigenous spicules or foreign material  ( spicules and sediment )  ;  coring may be light and limited to a central axis or may fill in the whole fiber
surface with alternating parallel ridges and grooves  ( callyspongia plicifera ) 
a superficial region of a sponge reinforced by a special organic or inorganic skeleton
ectosomal skeleton reinforced by a layer of special skeleton elements .
spicule or skeleton of the external layer or cortex of the sponge
massive shape ,  with a broad base and large central depression  ( xestospongia muta )  .
the fundamental ,  inceptional body of a desma before it is modified by deposition of multiple layers of silica .
prefix indicating spiral or annulate ornamentation ,  as in cricalthrop  ( genus sphinctrella ) 
a j - shaped microsclere
masses of thesocyte - like cells lodged within the basal crypts  ( chambers )  of the calcareous skeleton  ( see ct in figure )  .
organization of the skeletal crystals observed after special preparation showing the relationship between organic and mineral phases .
referring to spicule shape  ( may be symmetrical or asymmetrical )  .
a spongin layer covering the surface or a part of the surface of a sponge .
a sigma with semilanceolated extremities  ( genus pozziella ) 
cell with a single large vesicle containing amorphous material identified as polysaccharide and occupying most of the cell volume
to be rejected for habit  ( term used as a descriptor of skeleton ,  see  \ "architecture of the skeleton of demospongiae \ " )  .
a skeleton consisting of single or ramifying fibers or tracts that branch but rarely anastomose  ( tree - like branching ) 
desma with branched ends or tetracladine ,  amphitrider - like ;  always positioned perpendicular to skeletal fibers .
ambiguous ,  to be rejected .
spicules of the external sponge surface .
a typical interlocked megasclere with hypertrophic terminal secretion of silica .
an actinal branch or a distal ,  branched portion of a ray .
megascleres with two rays and frequently with central swellings indicating the hexactin origin .
megasclere with two actines  ( two rays or two points ) 
reduced triaene with two clads
a microsclere with hooked ,  knife - shaped ends ,  notched where they join the shaft and in the middle of the shaft  ( genus hamacantha ) 
sagittal triactine with parallel paired rays
in fossil sponges ,  radial canal in the honeycomb -  like skeleton of aphrocallistidae .
an ortho or plagiotriaene in which the clads are bifurcate
tuberculate monaxial desma ,  arch shaped ,  tripodal ,  tetrapodal ,  or rarely polygonal ;  zygomes are terminal ,  like those of the tetraclone .
three - dimensional network of fused ,  regular hexactins
spicules fused into a rigid framework .
microxea or microstrongyle ornamented by two discs along the shaft  ( genus didiscus ) 
deeply divided ,  finger - like outgrowths from basal mass  ( halichondria bowerbanki ) 
any diactine spicule with a central double - bent kink
an astrose microsclere in which the rays or spines radiate from two ,  slightly distant ,  points
type of choanocyte chamber that connects with the inhalant canals through a canaliculum called the prosodus and with the excurrent canal through an apopyle extended by an aphodus
a collective term for discorhabd and sceptrum ;  to be rejected .
a modified isochela whose disc - shaped alae are very close to each other and connected on their margins by two extremely reduced shafts  ( genus coelodischela ) 
octaster with terminal rays ending in umbel - like disks
hexactin with rays terminating in dentate ,  umbel - like structures
hexaster with dentate ,  umbel - like terminal rays .
a rod - shaped microsclere with several smooth or serrated discs along the shaft  ( genera latrunculia ,  podospongia ,  sceptrinus ) 
a triaene with a disc - shaped cladome .
hexaster with sickle - like terminations  ( genus dictyaulus ) 
megasclere that protrudes from the spongin plate ,  a fiber ,  or a spicule tract
outer layer of the cortex
skeleton found in the superficial region of a sponge ,  distinct from that of the choanosome .
the superficial region of a sponge that has no choanocyte chambers .
resilient .
thin ,  sheet - like coating of the substrate  ( hymedesmia spp . ) 
occupying cavities in hard substrata  ( see also excavating )  .
pinacocyte lining the inhalant and exhalant canals .
surface lined by endopinacocytes .
main part of body buried in sand  ( oceanapia peltata ) 
calcareous or siliceous spicules that are not part of the primary spicule framework but are progressively enclosed within a solid skeleton during growth
cell with inclusions that react positively with eosine .
part of the developed desma formed by the deposition of concentric layers immediately around the crepis .
in fossil sponges ,  canal closed at inner end  ( cf .
a thin ,  wrinkled ,  calcareous layer ,  different in structure from the normal skeleton ,  covering the dead basal part of a rigid calcareous skeleton
adjective referring to the extremities of megascleres .
general term for having a vertical  ( away from substrate )  growth strategy .
a collective term for astrose microscleres in which the rays radiate from a central point
type of choanocyte chamber that connects directly with the inhalant canals through prosopyles and with the excurrent canal through an apopyle .
living in galleries or cavities bored into limestone or other calcareous materials  ( species of cliona ,  thoosa ,  aka ) 
any canal forming part of the exhalant system ,  lined by the apopinacoderm .
part of the aquiferous system between the apopyle and oscule
fusiform or t - shaped pinacocyte covering the free surface of a sponge .
styles or tylostyles with enlarged or omated distal end ,  projecting from the sponge surface
structurally distinct skeleton arising from or surrounding an axial region
the plane passing through tips of the three rays of a triactine or of a basal triradiate system of a tetractine .
crystal fibers fanning outward and radiating upward .
a column  ( strand ,  thread )  of spongin forming a reticulate or dendritic skeleton ,  with or without indige nous spicules or foreign material .
forming a net composed of fibers .
microsclere consisting of two bent rays derived from greatly reduced oxyhexaster  ( in holascus fibulatus ) 
fig shaped  ( petrosia ficiformis ) 
secondary calcareous skeleton that partitions or fills abandoned parts of the skeleton .
narrow structure ,  similar to an ala ,  flanking the shaft of an anchorate chela
solid ,  requires considerable pressure to deform sponge  ( species of chondrosia )  .
a tube - like protuberance projecting from the sponge surface .
bearing fistules  ( coelosphaera hechteli )  .
fan shaped  ( phakellia ventilabrum ) 
to be rejected .see choanocyte chamber and choanochamber .
shaped as a single ,  very long ,  erect branch  ( raspailia viminalis ) 
referring to the spicule shape .
discohexaster with s - shaped terminal rays that end in a plate provided with teeth or claws
in the form of a leaf  ( carteriospongia foliacens ) 
cell in a group surrounding an oocyte
circular pore in laminae connecting adjoining interlamellar spaces  ( fo in figure ,  which also shows cc = choanocyte chamber ;  ct = crypt tissue ;  sk = rigid aspicular skeleton ;  spi = spicule ;  and ta = tabula )  .
a u - shaped microsclere
easily broken .
breakup of a sponge without concomitant formation of special reproductive bodies .
a ray that projects through the external or the atrial surface .
easily broken ,  delicate ,  brittle .
cell with inclusions that react positively with acid fuchsin .
shape of a monactin spicule ,  tapering regularly toward a point .
all spicules that line the main exhalant cavity .
a resistant asexual reproductive body ,  composed of a mass of archaeocytes charged with reserves and enclosed in a noncellular protective envelope or coat
cell with a single large globule ,  a reduced cytoplasm ,  and a small conical nucleus  ( clathriidae ) 
ball shaped ,  spherical  ( tethya aurantium ) 
sticky  ( reniera mucosa )  .
cell with conspicuous dictyosomes ,  characterized by the presence of glycogen rosettes and osmiophilic inclusions .
hexaster with long ,  thin ,  parallel branches forming terminal brushes
confused skeleton except at the surface ;  choanosomal skeleton may be in vague tracts
firm consistency ,  unyielding to pressure  ( most lithis tids ,  species of petrosia )  .
spicule remaining isodiametric for most of its length ,  with the point or points tapering abruptly .
desma with elongate and usually sinuous shaft ,  without branches ,  possibly with small digitations at the ends ;  the zygomes are lateral notches .
hexaster in which two opposite rays are longer than the other four ;  the branched rays are reduced or absent  ( genus aphrocallistes ) 
siliceous spicule with six unbranched rays perpendicular to one another .
microhexactin with six actins ending in amphidisclike umbels
microsclere with six branched rays .
a more or less distinct ,  funnel - shaped depression in the surface of a sterraster ,  situated on one side in ellipsoidal forms ;  also occurs in aspidasters in reduced form ,  resembling an umbilicus .
surface with long and scattered spicular projections  ( stelletta spp . ) 
spicules projecting through the pinacoderm .
a fiber without central pith and without conspicuous layers
surface with polygonal pattern of ridges  ( verongula gigantea ) 
skeleton of encrusting sponge where monactine megascleres are arranged singly with heads fixed to a basal plate of spongin and points directed outward
dermalia with one actin protruding inside the body and the other ones tangential to the external surface
gastralia with one actin protruding inward ,  the other ones oriented tangentially to the atrium
choanoskeleton composed only of the unpaired rays of the subatrial spicules and of one of the rays of the cortical or subcortical spicules .
not easily squeezed .
funnel shaped  ( callyspongia plicifera ) 
any canal forming part of the inhalant system and lined by the prosopinacoderm .
part of the aquiferous system between ostia and prosopyle .
parenchymalia situated among the principalia or dictyonalia
free choanosomal spicule not included in tracts or fibers ,  common in subectosomal skeleton
term to be rejected .see pore .
long ,  slender  ( 0 .5 - 15 urn thick )  spongin element ,  terminally knobbed ;  intertwined or free in the sponge body
structure in which tangled crystal fibers have no preferred orientation  ( e .g . ,  genus vaceletia )  .
prefix meaning equal  ( generally referring to the ends of a spicule )  .
a chela with equal ends
isotropic reticulation in which the meshes are triangular and have sides one spicule long
reticulation without differentiation into primary or secondary fibers ,  tracts ,  or lines .
plate - like erect  ( phyllospongia lamellosa )  .
calcareous plate in stromatoporoids ,  perpendicular to radial skeletal components
a fiber in which concentric layers are visible
a macroscopic ,  banded calcareous skeletal plate in stromatoporoids
skeleton lacking clear tracts or fibers
aquiferous system in which the choanocytes are restricted to discrete choanocyte chambers ,  which are dispersed in the mesohyl .
soft to the point of collapsing out of water .
unispicular tract
spicules that are interlocked by zygosis ,  without cement
prefix meaning without .
condition of a surface in which oscula and ostia are inconspicuous  ( in old descriptions )  .
main skeleton consisting of an interlocked assemblage of desmas
having rounded projections .
to be rejected  ( tautology )  .
modified calthrop with one  ( monoloph )  ,  three  ( triloph )  ,  or four  ( tetraloph )  rays
discohexaster with short ,  stout main rays and numerous slender secondary rays
hexactin with a center resembling a perforated octohedron ;  building block of fused  ( dictyonal )  framework called lychnisca  ( lower two lychnics shown in optical section )  .
dictyonal hexactin framework formed by lychnises
spicular framework formed by the juxtaposition and interlacing of elongate rays of hexactins
rounded regular or irregular elevation of the skeleton surface ;  may or may not show correlation with astrorhizae
prostalia that project in a wreath - like arrangement from the oscular margin
large ,  compact structure without definable shape  ( spongia officinalis )  .
arch - shaped desma with a short crepis .
nontuberculate dicranoclone desma
sheet of collagen separating the choanochambers of hexactinellids .
a triaene in which the rhabd is extended beyond the cladome
tetraclone with a mesotriaene crepis .
a microsclere with a twisted shaft no longer than the spines ;  intermediate between plesiaster and spi raster
prefix used for naming microscleres that are similar in shape to megascleres  ( e .g . ,  microxea ,  microstyle )  .
a small tetractine anchor  ( described only from the atrial skeleton )  .
structure of microcionid sponges in which spicules project from an elevation of the basal plate of spongin
a small diactine spicule
a cell with cytoplasm filled with small dense granules
diverse structure in which small ,  round elements are scattered
hexactin microsclere .
large category of microscleres lacking spines and appendages  ( monorhaphis ) 
structure in which the crystal fibers are disposed in criss - cross layers ,  mostly parallel to the surface of the skeleton  ( e .g . ,  genus acanthochaetetes ) 
opening in the gemmule coat through which cells leave a hatching gemmule  ( mp in figure )  .
a general term for a straight ,  monaxonic microsclere .
the arrangement of crystals that form the skeletal components ,  as seen without special preparations .
prokaryotic or more rarely eukaryotic microorganism living inside a sponge .
reduced triaene with only one clad
linear ,  nonradiate spicule ,  or a spicule type not having more than two rays along one axis .
adjective referring to the nipple - like point of a megasclere .
fiber or tract composed of six or more spicules adjacent to one another .
a diactine with a hole at one end
junction of spicule tips cemented by spongin .
cells that are incorporated in developing oocytes to provide nutrient material for further growth
spicule with eight rays ,  generally six in one plane ,  the other two perpendicular to them .
octactin microsclere with branched rays .
earliest developmental stage with a functional aquiferous system ,  with a single choanocyte chamber opening directly into the osculum ;  typical of some calcareous sponges
a long ,  thin ,  finely spined ,  asymmetric microsclere
hexaster with terminal rays ending in four actins that are perpendicular to the rays
the crystallographic trigonal axis of the calcite spicule .
diactin in which the two rays belong to different axes of a triaxon and form an angle of 90 degrees
microstructure in which the crystal fibers are in perpendicular and radial orientation relative to a central axis
a triaene in which the clads are directed at right angles to the rhabd
egg shaped ,  ellipsoid  ( cinachyrella ) 
mode of reproduction in which embryo develops outside the parent sponge .
monaxon  ( diactinal )  spicule pointed at both ends  ( a - m in figure )  .
prefix referring to radiate spicule types with rays gradually tapering to a point .
an euaster with acerate free rays and a small centrum less than one - third the diameter of the whole spicule ) 
one or both equivalent rays of a sagittal spicule .
perpendicular arrangement of ectosomal spicules ,  with points directed outward
hand shaped  ( isodictya palmata ) 
an iso -  or anisochela in which the lateral alae coalesce with the shaft over their entire length ,  and the single ,  median ,  anterior ala  ( one at each end )  stands free and widens distally
to be rejected  ( tautology )  .
nipple - like protuberance projecting from the sponge surface and bearing either ostia ,  oscula ,  or both .
surface bearing papillae  ( polymastia spp . ) 
graphicome - like spicule with diverging terminal rays
bilaterally symmetrical triactine or tetractine with unequal actines ,  having equal angles  ( 120 degrees )  between the basal rays when projected into a plane perpendicular to the optic axis .
arrangement of ectosomal spicules intermediate between the palisade and tangential type
tangential ectosomal skeleton in which the megascleres are arranged in a tight feltwork
all spicules in the choanosome
larva composed of an envelope of flagellated cells surrounding an internal mass of cells
fiber or tract with two to five megascleres adjacent to one another
supported by a short stalk containing choanosome  ( aplysina pedunculata ) 
five - rayed spicule .
a triaene with a leaf - shaped cladome .
radial skeletal component ,  relatively short compared with column
feather shaped  ( asbestopluma pennatula ) 
pentact or hexact spicule with four basal rays and one perpendicular ray ornamented by obliquely set spines directed distally .
central area of a fiber made up of more or less diffuse wisps of collagen or of a coarsely granular collagen material .
a fiber in which pith is easily distinguished from the surrounding bark .
a special type of isochela with plate - like alae .
a triaene in which the clads are directed forward and form with the rhabd an angle of about 45 degrees ,  and may be recurved distally
thickly lamellate ,  usually in horizontal orientation .
a streptaster with a very short shaft  ( always shorter than the spines ) 
spicules protruding from lateral surface .
a type of plumose skeletal construction in which cross - connections occur
a type of skeletal construction made of primary fibers or spicule tracts from which skeletal elements radiate obliquely
special kind of bacteriocyte that surrounds an area of the intercellular matrix ,  including microsymbionts
occurring in different shapes .
megasclere with several annular swelling along its shaft
a furrow in the ectosome where the ostia are located
a specialized area of the ectosome with a cluster of ostia and an underlying inhalant cavity called the vestibule
cup - shaped depressions with pore - sieves ,  typical of some genera of tetillidae
pole opposite to anterior pole when larva is swimming ,  often without flagella .
cf .apopore  ( = osculum )  ;  in fossil sponges .
an ascending fiber ending at a right angle to the surface
initially formed skeletal components
the major structural megasclere in any particular sponge .
framework of spicules around which a cement is deposited
spicules making up main skeletal framework
in fossil sponges ,  inhalant canal leading to prosopore .
a small inhalant canal leading to a prosopyle .
endopinacocyte lining the inhalant canals .
surface lined by prosopinacocytes .
spicules protruding from a surface
the proximal ,  unbranched portion of a branched ray .
the original simple shaft of ornamented monaxons and of triaenes .
a triaene in which the clads are directed or sharply curved forward ,  away from the rhabd
one of a group of skeletal tubes  -  closely packed together ,  mostly hexagonal in shape and containing the live material  -  that resemble the calices or corallites of cnidarians .
accumulation of gemmular archaeocytes  ( crypt cells ,  tract cells )  in basal cavities of a solid calcareous skeleton
a subcortical triactine essentially sagittal ,  but having unequally long and differently curved rays on each side of the unpaired angle
surface appearing dotted because of microscopic pores .
a small euaster in which the rays are merely low conules ;  to be rejected .
a type of skeleton in which the structural components diverge from a central region toward the sponge surface
a very thin ,  hair - like microsclere ,  often in bundles called trichodragmas
a multicellular mass resulting from the disorganization of a sponge and presumably capable of reorganizing into a new functional sponge .
triactine or tetractine spicule with basal rays of equal length ,  and with equal angles  ( 120 degrees )  between them ,  when projected into a plane perpendicular to the optic axis
growing along or just above the substrate ,  simple or branching ,  attaching to the substrate at intervals  ( hali clona simulans ) 
resumes original shape after deformation .
three - dimensional network of fibers ,  tracts ,  lines ,  or single spicules .
a collective term for a monaxonic megasclere ,  later applied to the one ray of a triaene that is distinct from the other three ,  mostly in length  ( = rhabdome )  .
diactin in which the two rays are aligned in a single axis .
the rhabd of a triaene and of a triaene - derived spicule .
a style with a pronounced basal bend .
earliest functional stage with multiple choanocyte chambers and aquiferous canals ,  typical for demospongiae
nontuberculate irregular monaxial desma ,  with spiny to root - like zygomes that are usually mainly lateral
surface with series of ridges  ( xestospongia muta )   ;  ridges not necessarily parallel ,  as in corrugated .
skeleton that originates from the direct secretion of aspicular elements made up of calcium carbonate ;  siliceous or calcareous spicules may be secondarily entrapped in the skeleton during the growth process  ( sk in figure )  .
a skeleton in which the main framework is first made up of fused or linked spicules that may later be invested by an aspicular cement
anchored to or into substrate with root - like processes  ( pheronema grayi )  .
resilient and tough .
having a rough and ridged surface  ( topsentia spp . ) 
triactine or tetractine with two equal angles  ( paired angles )  and one dissimilar angle  ( unpaired angle )  at the center ,  when projected into a plane perpendicular to the optic axis .
a rhabd - derived ,  straight microsclere having spines at intervals along the entire length .
sceptrule with one end swollen and ornamented with distally directed spines
disc - shaped microsclere forming ectosomal  ( 'dermal' )  armor  ( genus lepidosphera ) 
uncinate marginalia ,  with spiny shaft acerated at one end ;  terminating in four very short actins at the other  ( pheronematidae ,  genus semperella ) 
a small ,  prostal monactin spicule exhibiting peculiar secondary developments at one end  ( order hexactinosa )  .
in fossil sponges ,  continuous system of interconected canal spaces  ( tretodictyidae )  .
aggregate of crystals forming a microstructural unit of the calcareous skeleton
fork - like sceptrule with one end branched  ( leptoscopule ,  pachyscopule )  .
in a reticulate skeleton ,  a fiber that links the primary fibers .
skeletal components formed after the deposition of the primary calcareous skeleton
a special type of spiraster approaching the shape of a sterraster  ( genus placospongia ) 
permanently attached to substrate .
perforated plate that extends over the broad terminal opening of some tubular - shaped hexactinellida  ( euplectella )  .
a microsclere of c or s shape
a contorted - sigmoid microspined microsclere  ( family tetillidae ) 
hexaster with long ,  s - shaped terminal rays  ( dictyaulus ) 
all structures supporting and protecting the sponge body .
surface without any projections  ( chondrosia reniformis )  .
yielding to pressure ,  easily torn .
an anchorate chela  ( usually isochela )  having alae that are completely free from the shaft and that are spatulate or shaped like anchor teeth
modified ,  encysted spermatozoid transported by a carrier cell to the oocyte
modified isochela ,  consisting of two ellipsoid ridged plates intersecting at right angles  ( genus melonanchora ) 
anaxial desma in which several ray - like arms extend from one side of a globular centrum that is spiny on the other side
hexactin with rays ending in spherical knobs
hexaster with terminal rays ending in spherical knobs
an euaster with short rays and a thick centrum ;  the diameter of the centrum  ( more than one - half the total diameter )  exceeds the length of the rays
euaster with a discrete centrum that is more than one - third the total diameter
globular  ( centric or excentric )  arrangement of crystal fibers radiating from a common center  ( e .g . ,  genus astrosclerd ) 
cell filled with large round spherules that occupy almost the entire cell body ,  compressing the cytoplasm into thin sheets  ( sp in figure )  .
general term for spicule complement .
a spongin component of the skeleton that has the form of a diactinal ,  triactinal ,  or polyactinal spicule
surface with scattered ,  stiff ,  and sharp spicular or fiber projections  ( pleraplysilla spinifera ) 
spiral ,  rod - shaped microsclere with spines peripherally arranged .
discohexaster with a bunch of terminal ,  spirally twisted rays  ( genus rhabdodictyum ) 
particular gemmule that lacks a complex spongin coat and is covered externally by megascleres ;  typical of the freshwater potamolepidae .
reduced hexactin with four rays all arranged in one plane
reduced hexaster with four rays all arranged in one plane
adjective referring to the extremities of a megasclere .
a spherical or ellipsoidal microsclere in which the numerous rays are fused and end in stellate terminations  ( e .g . ,  genus geodia )  .
ball - shaped euaster with numerous conical or flattened ,  often denticulate or tuberculate protuberances ;  to be rejected .
supported by a long stalk  ( stylocordyla stipitata ) 
condition in which distinct ,  massive parts of a sponge are interconnected by repent ,  rope - like structures  ( haliclona tubifera )  .
developmental stage of amphiblastulas that precedes the reversion stage and is characterized by internal flagella and a large opening through which the eversion occurs
aster in which the rays proceed from an axis that is usually spiral
plumicome with numerous slender terminal rays arranged in two concentric circles
aster with free ,  isodiametric ,  blunt rays
an isodiametric ,  diactinal megasclere with rounded ends
a fusiform oxea with one end blunt .
monaxon spicule with one end pointed ,  the other  ( head or base )  blunt
sagittal spicule with paired rays adjacent to the atrial skeleton .
a pseudosagittal triactine ,  with unpaired actine and a shorter paired actine adjacent to the cortex ,  or a tetractine with basal triradiate system adjacent to the cortex .
term to be rejected .see subcortical spicule .
term to be rejected .see subatrial spicule .
skeleton consisting of a loose assemblage of desmas
tylostyle with one end pointed ,  the other with a slight swelling or knob ;  the swelling ,  more or less distinct ,  may be displaced along the shaft
furrowed with longitudinal ,  or meandering  ( gyriform )  ,  parallel channels  ( myrmekioderma styx ) 
aquiferous system with elongated choanocyte chamber containing free distal cones or extending from cortex to atrium .
aquiferous system with elongate choanocyte chambers arranged radially around invagination of the atrial cavity  ( leucilla uter ) 
adjective referring to the extremities of megascleres .
bridges composed of siliceous cement joining spicules
plate or floor that partitions the basal part of a skeletal cavity  ( ta in figure )  .
osculum in stromatoporoids that has been repeatedly partitioned by secondarily deposited tabulae .
ectosomal skeleton arranged parallel to the surface  ( figure shows upper right ,  view from the top )  .
spicule arranged parallel to the surface .
large ,  smooth triactin  ( genus monorhaphis )  .
in a reticulate skeleton ,  a fiber interconnecting the secondary fibers
tetraxial desma that does not show a triaenose symmetry ;  the zygomes are typically terminal .
spicule with four rays in one plane
a spicule with four rays  ( in figure ,  sagittal tetractine at the top and regular tetractine at the bottom )  .
microsclere with four actins ending in amphidisc like umbels
a rare ,  modified isochela having two small disks both at the extremities and in the middle of a straight shaft ;  the two in the middle are fused  ( genus tetrapocillon ) 
a rare ,  minute anisochela with the smaller extremity jar -  or slipper - shaped and partly enveloped by four alae issuing from the opposite end and forming an umbrella - like structure  ( mycale thaumatochela )  .
vitelline - rich archaeocyte in a sponge gemmule  ( th in figure )  .
toxa - like ,  smooth to spinose microsclere ,  double -  bent in the middle and often with central swelling  ( genus rhabderemia ) 
gigantic ,  isolated diactin  ( hyalonema toxeres )  .
a straight ,  isodiametric ,  diactinal megasclere with conical or mucronate extremities
resistant to tearing  ( ircinia )  .
bow - shaped microsclere
syncytia in hexactinellids occurring around the choanochambers .
a column of aligned megascleres .
spicule with three rays in one plane
a spicule with three rays .
general term for a tetractinal megasclere having one unequal ray  ( termed rhabd )  that is commonly much longer than the other three  ( termed clads ,  forming the cladome )  .
spicule with three axes .
graphicome  ( genus trichasterina )  .
hexactinellid larva ,  distinguished by median zone with multiflagellated mononucleate cells between anterior and posterior poles ;  with special larval stauractin skeleton
a bundle of raphids .
a triaene in which the clads are trifurcate .
thin ,  hair - like straight monaxon spicules present in general around the osculum or protruding from the cortex .
a chela with three free alae .
variant of tetraclone ,  with triaenose symmetry and three similar arms .
triact in which the rays are equal ,  straight ,  in one plane ,  and diverging at an angle of 120 degrees .
a modified triod with rays forming a regular pyramid .
nurse cell involved in the initial stages of gemmule and oocyte formation .
aster with crowded ,  blunt rays  ( genus rhabdastrella )  .
spicule ornamented with blunt knobs .
shape of hollow ,  erect cylinder  ( aplysina fistularis ) 
resembling an inverted cone  ( cribochalina vasculum ) 
aster with free ,  microtylote rays
any rounded swelling or knob in a spicule  ( c in figure )  .
a style with a tyle  ( globular swelling )  at the base
diactinal megasclere with a swelling on each end
diactin covered with short spines directed distally  ( barbule )  ;  size classes are designated by macrouncinate ,  microuncinate
adjective referring to the extremities of megascleres .
an anchorate chela in which the recurved processes are in the form of claws or sickles and are normally connected to the shaft by expansions called falces
a single aligned row of megascleres
in sagittal spicules ,  the ray of a triactine or of a triradiate basal system of a tetractine lying in the plane of bilateral symmetry .
to be rejected  ( old - fashioned ,  heraldic term used to describe massive forms )  .
surface with dense ,  short spicular projections ,  feeling soft and smooth to the touch .
warty  ( genus tethya ) 
spicule ornamented by whirls  ( e .g . ,  genus agelas ) 
hollow ,  bladder - like  ( inflatella belli )  .
subectosomal cavity .an inhalant aquiferous cavity close to the surface  ( see also pore sieve )  .
surface shaggy ,  with dense ,  long spicular bundles  ( rosella villosa ) 
mode of reproduction in which internal fertilization and incubation of the embryo occur inside the parent sponge .
part of a desma that interlocks with another spicule .
mode of junction between siliceous and calcareous tetraradiates characterized by the interlocking of their terminal or lateral expansions ;  cement ,  if present ,  is secondary .
stellate spicule where where 1 - 6 primary rays undergo terminal branching to form secondary rays  ( differs from definition used for desmosponges ) 
microsclere with both ends blunted [ wp ] 
a pentact with large spines on the non - planar ray [ wp ] 
enzyme which catalyzes the formation of silicate polymers
enzyme in sponges ,  proposed to be involved in silica restructuring and maintenance .
shape of a monactin spicule ,  tapering regularly toward an end .
has spines ;  applies only to spicules
pato_0000701 \ na texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's posessing a surface free of roughness or irregularities .
number of size categories
megasclere with a single actine  ( one ray or one point ) 
megasclere with two actines  ( two rays or two points ) 
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a stage that is part of the embryo stage .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
a distinct juvenile stage many animals undergo before metamorphosis into adults .
end of the life of an organism .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
a distinct juvenile form many animals undergo before metamorphosis into adults .
an organ involved in reproduction
an embryo at the neurula stage .
organism at the gastrula stage .
any anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
a two dimensional anatomical structure that is the boundary between an anatomical structure and an anatomical substance ,  an anatomical space or the organism's environment .
organism at the cleavage stage .
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_with a post - embryonic stage .
inverse of surrounded_by
