traditional medicine refers to health practices ,  approaches ,  knowledge and beliefs incorporating plant ,  animal and mineral based medicines ,  spiritual therapies ,  manual techniques and exercises ,  applied singularly or in combination to treat ,  diagnose and prevent illnesses or maintain well - being .
a ritual is a set of actions ,  often thought to have symbolic value ,  the performance of which is usually prescribed by a religion or by the traditions of a community by religious or political laws because of the perceived efficacy of those actions .
an actor in a traditional african medicine .
all the traditional believes of a given traditional group .
a soothsayer is a person who claims to speak sooth: specifically one who predicts the future based upon personal ,  political ,  spiritual ,  or religious beliefs rather than scientific facts .
a person who practise witchcraft .
a person who treats by fetishism .
a healer is someone who intends to aid recovery from ill health .
a traditional conception of a disease cause .
the way a treatment is done and the elements that enter in it .
a taboo is a strong social prohibition  ( or ban )  against words ,  objects ,  actions ,  discussions ,  or people that are considered undesirable or offensive by a group ,  culture ,  society ,  or community .
other traditional action where the use of magic or malefic power can cause illness .
witchcraft ,  in various historical ,  anthropological ,  religious and mythological contexts ,  is the use of certain kinds of supernatural or magical powers .
a fetish is an object believed to have supernatural powers ,  or in particular a man - made object that has power over others .
all the practices that enter in the process of the african traditional medicine .
divination is the attempt of ascertaining information by interpretation of omens or an alleged supernatural agency ,  either by or on behalf of a querent .
diagnosis  ( plural diagnoses )  has two distinct dictionary definitions .
a disease cause by an external agent which is not a natural cause of the disease .
a disease cause by a bacterie .
a disease caused by a parasite .
a systemic disease caused by natural means .
a gyneaco - obstetrical disease caused by nautural means .
potion is a consumable medicine or poison ,  usually possessing magical properties .
the usage of a potion .
the type of a potion .
the preparation of a potion .
the effect of a potion .
