the anatomical structure which is part of the hemolymph vascular system and consists of a vascular wall and a vascular lumen .
the vascular wall which is part of an artery and surrounds the arterial lumen .
the vessel which runs longitudinally in the dorsal midline of the body and may consist of anterior aorta ,  heart and posterior aorta .
the artery which connects different artery systems .
the aorta which emanates anteriorly from the heart .
the artery which is part of the ventral vessel system ,  runs medially in the ventral portion of the body and is connected to the dorsal vessel via one or more arteries .
the vessel which is part of the arterial system ,  consisting of an arterial wall and an arterial lumen ,  and either emanating directly from the heart  ( or other pulsatile organs )  or emanating from another artery thus indirectly from the heart  ( or other pulsatile organs )  .
the heart which possesses a myocard with some bundles of cardiomyocytes also passing through the heart lumen .
the heart which possesses a myocard forming a hollow cylinder .
the artery which supplies the brain .
the portion of organism substance which is part of the circulatory system and consists of hemocytes and hemolymph plasma .
the first cardiac artery which is part of the anterior lateral artery system and emanates anteriorly from the heart next to the anterior aorta .
the vascular lumen which is part of the heart and is surrounded by the myocard .
the myocyte which is part of the myocardium .
the ventral vessel system which emanates from the anterior aorta and encloses the nervous system .
the vascular lumen which is part of an artery and is surrounded by the arterial wall .
the cell which is part of the hemolymph in which it is suspended .
the artery which is part of the ventral vessel system and connects the heart and the ventral vessel .
the portion of tissue which is part of the heart and built up of cardiomyocytes .
a subdivision of a neuron projection along its long axis that is sufficiently short that it is not fiber - shaped .
a fiber - shaped subdivision of a neuron projection along its long axis .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
cell which has as its part a cytoskeleton that allows for tight cell to cell contact and which has apical - basal cell polarity .
compound organ that does not contain macroscopic anatomical spaces .
the cardiac artery system which consists of the first cardiac artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the esophageal artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the fringe artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the gastric artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the lateral brain artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the optic artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the pereiopodal artery and all its branches .
the portion of tissue which borders a sinus .
the artery which connects the heart and the ventral vessel and is situated in the first trunk segment .
the artery which is part of the anterior aorta system and which forms a loop with its contralateral counterpart and is situated in the mandibular segment .
the artery which supplies the fifth leg .
the leg artery which supplies a pleopod .
the pleopodal artery which supplies the first pleopod .
the pleopodal artery which supplies the second pleopod .
the pleopodal artery which supplies the third pleopod .
the pleopodal artery which supplies the fourth pleopod .
the pleopodal artery which supplies the fifth pleopod .
the pleopodal artery which supplies the sixth pleopod .
the pereiopodal artery which supplies the first pereiopod .
the pereiopodal artery which supplies the second pereiopod .
the pereiopodal artery which supplies the third pereiopod .
the pereiopodal artery which supplies the fourth pereiopod .
the pereiopodal artery which supplies the fifth pereiopod .
the pleopodal artery which supplies a gonopod .
the gonopodal artery which supplies the first gonopod .
the gonopodal artery which supplies the second gonopod .
a mature contractile cell ,  commonly known as a myocyte .
the pleonal artery which emanates posterolaterally from the posterior aorta on the right side .
the pleonal artery which emanates posterolaterally from the posterior aorta on the left side .
the artery system which consists of the accessory optic artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the antennal artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the epidermal artery and all its branches .
the septum which borders the podo - pericardial sinus .
the accessory pulsatile organ which is part of an anterior aorta system ,  consisting of two blind ending ,  muscular sacs ,  connecting to the anterior aorta via a common branch .
the myoarterial formation which is part of the anterior aorta and into which dilators of the posterior part of the stomach chamber are internalized .
the myoarterial formation which is part of the anterior aorta and into which the musculi occuli basales posteriores  ( sensu baumann 1917 )  are internalized .
the myoarterial formation which is part of the anterior aorta and into which the esophageal dilator muscles m103 and m104  ( sensu scheloske 1976 )  are internalized .
the first cardiac artery system which consists of the accompanying artery and its branches .
the artery which is part of the perineural vascular sheath ,  emanates from the aortic arches and surrounds the prosomal ganglion .
the leg artery which supplies a swimming leg .
the first cardiac artery which accompanies the anterior aorta into the cephalothoracic region .
the lacuna which lies in the prosoma .
the artery system which consists of the prosomal marginal artery and all its branches .
the sinus which connects the hemocoel of the operculum with the pericardial sinus .
the artery which supplies the operculum .
the artery system which consists of the opisthosomal marginal artery and all its branches .
the artery which is part of the perineural vascular sheath and surrounds the ventral nerve cord .
the optic artery which supplies the median eye .
the lacuna which runs longitudinally from prosoma to opisthosoma .
the artery which is part of the anterior aorta system and supplies the frontal part of the body .
the lacuna which is part of a branchiostegal lacunar network .
the leg artery which supplies the chilaria .
the artery system which consists of the collateral artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the cheliceral artery and all its branches .
the arterial valve which separates the lumen of the heart from the lumen of an aorta .
the artery system which consists of the posterior aorta and all its branches .
the artery which is part of the anterior lateral artery system and supplies the epistome .
the artery which is part of the anterior lateral artery system and supplies the stomach .
the artery which is part of the anterior lateral artery system and supplies the anterior gastric muscle .
the artery which is part of the anterior lateral artery system and supplies the posterior stomach muscle .
the brain artery which is part of the anterior lateral artery system .
the artery which is part of the anterior lateral artery system and supplies a second antenna .
the artery which is part of the anterior lateral artery system and supplies the rostrum .
the artery which supplies the pylorus .
the artery which is part of the anterior lateral artery system and supplies the antennal gland .
the artery which is part of the anterior lateral artery system ,  supplies a mandible adductor muscle and runs along the lateral margin of the carapace .
the hemocoel within an antennal gland .
the brain artery which is part of the anterior aorta system  and supplies the lateral portion of the brain .
the ostium which is next in a posterior direction to the second ostium .
the artery which supplies a first antenna .
the anatomical system which is part of the arterial system and resembles an artery with all its branches .
the artery system which consists of a cardiac artery and all its branches .
the cardiac artery system which consists of the second cardiac artery and all its branches .
the cardiac artery system which consists of the third cardiac artery and all its branches .
the hemocoel which which forms a network between the epidermal layers of the branchiostegites .
the artery which is part of the posterior aorta system and runs above the ventral pleonal muscle .
the artery which is part of the posterior aorta system and emanates from the right pleonal artery and supplies the ventral pleonal muscle .
the artery system which consists of the anterior aorta and all its branches .
the cardiac artery system which consists of the anterior lateral artery and all its branches .
the hemolymph space which is part of the hemolymph lacunar system and channels hemolyph .
the artery which is part of the anterior aorta system ,  emanates from the anterior aorta and bends ventrally in direction of the prosomal ganglion .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
multi - cellular organism that has male and female sexes .
the artery which connects the two aortic arches dorsally to the nervous system .
the brain artery which is part of the anterior aorta system and runs between two neuromeres of the subesophageal ganglion .
the artery which is part of the anterior aorta system and supplies the horizontally arranged musculature between the coxae of the pedipalps .
the artery which supplies a coxa .
the coxal artery which supplies a coxapophysis .
the coxal artery which supplies the coxa of a pedipalp .
the artery which is part of the cheliceral artery system and supplies the dorsal musculature and the dorsal tegument .
the artery which is part of the anterior aorta system and supplies the dilation musculature of a suction stomach .
the brain artery which is part of the anterior aorta system and supplies the protocerebrum .
the artery which supplies the esophagus .
the artery which is part of cheliceral artery system ,  extends into the posterodorsal region of the prosoma and supplies the prosomal musculature and digestive glands .
the artery which is part of the anterior aorta system and supplies the upper lip  ( labrum )  .
the artery which is part of the anterior aorta system and supplies the lower lip  ( labium )  .
the artery which is part of the anterior aorta system and supplies the dorsal region of the prosoma .
the brain artery which is part of the cheliceral artery system and runs ventrally into the supraesophageal ganglion .
the transganglionic artery which is part of the anterior aorta system and runs medially between two adjacent neuromeres .
the transganglionic artery which emanates from a leg artery .
the artery which is part of the anterior lateral artery system and supplies the epidermis of the integument .
the artery which supplies the gonads .
the artery which is part of the ventral vessel system and bifurcates into an esophageal artery and a mandibular artery .
the artery which is part of the ventral vessel system and supplies a first or second maxilla .
the artery which is part of the ventral vessel system and supplies a scaphognathite .
the artery which is part of the posterior aorta system and supplies an uropod .
the artery which is part of the posterior aorta system and supplies the telson .
the artery which emanates posterolaterally from the posterior aorta .
the artery which supplies a chelicera .
the artery which supplies a pedipalp .
the leg artery which supplies a fourth leg .
the leg artery which supplies a third leg .
the leg artery which supplies a second leg .
the leg artery which supplies a first leg .
the cardiac artery which is next in a posterior direction to the second cardiac artery .
the artery which supplies a maxilliped .
is the artery which supplies a mandible .
the ostium which is next in a posterior direction to the first ostium .
the ostium which is the anteriormost one .
the cardiac artery which is next in a posterior direction to the first cardiac artery .
the cardiac artery which is the anteriormost one .
the hemocoel which is part of an antenna .
the optic artery which is part of the anterior lateral artery system .
the ventral vessel which lies dorsally to the ventral nerve cord .
the cell which is part of the epicard .
the anatomical space which is filled with hemolymph .
the ligament which is muscular ,  spans between the heart or the pericardial septum and the lateral body wall .
the leg artery which supplies a pereiopod .
the accessory pulsatile organ which maintains hemolymph supply to the cerci .
the anatomical system which represents the sum of all sinuses and lacunae .
the granulocyte which contains regularly shaped spherical grana .
the aorta which emanates posteriorly from the heart .
the accessory pulsatile organ which maintains hemolymph supply to the ovipositor .
the accessory pulsatile organ which maintains hemolymph supply to the wing .
the portion of tissue which suspends the heart elastically .
the hemocyte which contains granules .
the cell which is part of the hemolymph that differentiates into different types of hemocytes .
the anatomical system consisting of a hemolymph vascular system ,  a hemolymph lacunar system and hemolymph .
the artery which is part of the ventral vessel anterior to the junction with the descending artery .
the sinus which surrounds the gut .
the artery which is part of the posterior aorta system and emanates laterally from the posterior aorta or the pleonal arteries .
the artery which supplies the midgut gland .
the portion of tissue which borderes the pericardal sinus ventrally .
the ostium which has its valve ( s )  pointing towards the lumen of a pusatile organ .
the artery which runs parallel to the heart on either side ,  connects the cardiac arteries and among others gives rise to the caudal artery and the prosomal marginal artery .
the pulsatile organ which is accessory to the heart .
the artery which is part of the opisthosomal marginal artery system ,  emanates from the prosomal marginal artery and runs along the outer edge of the opisthosoma .
the artery which is part of the prosomal marginal artery system ,  emanates from the collateral artery and runs along the outer edge of the prosomal shield .
the artery which runs longitudinally and supplies the posterior region of the body .
the cardiac artery which emanates ventrally to the origin of an anterior lateral artery .
the accessory pulsatile organ which maintains hemolymph supply to the leg .
the portion of organism substance which is part of the hemolymph ,  non - cellular and surrounds the hemolymph cells .
the anatomical system which is part of the circulatory system and consists of the arterial system and the heart .
the artery which is part of the posterior aorta and is its bulbous anterior portion .
the cavitated compound organ which is surrounded by a wall containing muscular or collageneous elements .
the sinus which surrounds the ventral nerve cord and is bordered by the ventral diaphragm .
the sinus which connects the hemocoel of the legs with the pericardial sinus .
the ventral vessel which lies ventrally to the ventral nerve chord .
the hemocoel which is partly or totally bordered by a septum .
the artery which is part of the ventral vessel posterior to the junction with the descending artery .
the valve which is part of the ostium and prevents hemolymph from leaving the heart lumen .
the sinus which connects the hemocoel of the lungs with the pericardial sinus .
the portion of tissue which is part of the heart and lines the myocard externally .
the hemocyte which is type 2 .
the hemocyte which contains no or just a few grana and is characterized by intense spreading .
the sinus which lies underneath the carapace .
the artery which is part of the dorsal vessel ,  forms a longitudinal extension of the heart and is separated from the heart by an aortic valve .
the sinus which surrounds the heart and is bordered by the pericardial septum .
the artery which supplies the eye .
the hemocoel which is bordered by other organs and not by distinct septa .
the accessory pulsatile organ which is part of the anterior aorta and into which several muscles are internalized .
the ligament which connects the lateral part of the heart with the dorso - lateral integument .
the artery which is part of a cardiac artery system and emanates laterally or ventrally from the heart .
the lacuna which surrounds the stomach .
the hemocyte which is type 1 .
the ligament which connects the ventral part of the heart with the ventral integument ,  the pericardial septum or other .
the artery which is part of an artery system and has the smallest diameter .
the ostium which has its valve ( s )  pointing away from the lumen of a pusatile organ .
the ligament which connects the dorsal part of the heart with the dorsal integument .
the sinus which lies dorsally in the pleon .
the accessory pulsatile organ which supplies antennae .
the valve which is part of an artery .
multi - cellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
multi - tissue structure that is not part of a compound organ .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
anatomical structure that is a direct part of the cell .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical group that is has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions ,  that is demarcated by anatomical lines or points on the external or internal surfaces of anatomical structures .
non - material anatomical entity of zero dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical line or surface .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of an anatomical surface .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
the artery system which consists of the ventral vessel and all its branches .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
anatomical entity that has mass .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
the artery which supplies a leg .
the anatomical structure which is part of a pulsatile organ ,  and connects the lumen of the pulsatile organ with the surrounding hemocoel .
the anastomosis which is part of an arterial network ,  and connects afferent and efferent arteries .
the sinus which connects the hemocoel of the gills with the pericardial sinus .
the sinus which connects the hemocoel of the body with that of a gill .
multi - cellular organism that does not produce gametes .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
anatomical structure that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
epithelium that consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
cell that is an individual member of a species .
portion of organism substance located within a cell .
anatomical space that is part of a cell .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of the female sex ,  and then later of the male sex .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of the male sex ,  and then later of the female sex .
the pulsatile organ which is part of the dorsal vessel and consists of myocard ,  epicard and heart lumen .
hermaphroditic organism that produces both male and female gametes at the same time .
hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of one sex ,  and then later of the other sex .
the artery system which consists of the upper lip artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the pedipalpal artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the first leg artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the second leg artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the third leg artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the fourth leg artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the supraneural artery and all its branches .
delete class: the artery system which consists of the branching artery and all its branches .
the lateral transganglionic artery which is the anteriormost one .
the lateral transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the first lateral transganglionic artery .
the lateral transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the second lateral transganglionic artery .
the lateral transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the third lateral transganglionic artery .
the lateral transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the fourth lateral transganglionic artery .
the lateral transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the fifth lateral transganglionic artery .
the artery system which consists of the dorsal prosomal artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the first median transganglionic artery and all its branches .
the dorsal prosomal artery which is next in a posterior direction to the second dorsal prosomal artery .
the dorsal prosomal artery which is next in a posterior direction to the first dorsal prosomal artery .
the dorsal prosomal artery which is the anteriormost one .
the artery system which consists of the third prosomal artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the second prosomal artery and all its branches .
the artery system which consists of the first prosomal artery and all its branches .
the ventral branching artery which is next in a posterior direction to the first ventral branching artery .
the ventral branching artery which is the anteriormost one .
the median transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the eighth median transganglionic artery .
the median transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the seventh median transganglionic artery .
the median transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the sixth median transganglionic artery .
the median transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the fifth median transganglionic artery .
the median transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the fourth median transganglionic artery .
the median transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the third median transganglionic artery .
the median transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the second median transganglionic artery .
the median transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the first median transganglionic artery .
the median transganglionic artery which is the anteriormost one .
the artery system which consists of a median transganglionic artery and all its branches .
the artery which supplies the dorsal stomach musculature .
the artery system which consists of the peribuccal artery and all its branches .
the anatomical structure which forms an outlet structure .
the anatomical system which consists of anastomosing arteries and capillaries between afferent and efferent artery systems .
the capillary which is arranged in a hairpin - like fashion .
the anatomical system which is part of the hemolymph vascular system and represents the sum of all arteries .
the median transganglionic artery which is next in a posterior direction to the ninth median transganglionic artery .
the portion of tissue which is part of a vessel and surrounds the vascular lumen .
the hemolymph space which is part of a vessel and is surrounded by the vascular wall .
the lacuna which is situated under the midgut gland and bears a trough - like shape .
the lacuna which surrounds the central nervous system .
the lacuna which is situated ventrolaterally .
the lacuna inside the gills which emanates from the lacunae inside trunk or legs .
the lacuna inside the gills which gives rise to the branchio - pericardial sinus .
the branchiostegal lacuna which opens into the pericardial sinus .
the artery which supplies the branchiostegite .
the anastomosis which connects the left and right anterior lateral artery system in the rostral region .
