the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
an ontology module that comprises only of asserted axioms local to the ontology ,  excludes import directives ,  and excludes axioms or declarations from external ontologies .
an ontology module that is intended to be directly edited ,  typically managed in source control ,  and typically not intended for direct consumption by end - users .
an ontology module that is intended to be the primary release product and the one consumed by the majority of tools .
an ontology module that consists entirely of axioms that connect or bridge two distinct ontology modules .
a subset ontology module that is intended to be imported from another ontology .
an ontology module that is extracted from a main ontology module and includes only a subset of entities or axioms .
a subset ontology that is intended as a whitelist for curators using the ontology .
an ontology module that is intended for usage in analysis or discovery applications .
a subset ontology that is largely comprised of a single layer or strata in an ontology class hierarchy .
a subset of an ontology that is intended to be excluded for some purpose .
an imported ontology module that is derived from an external ontology .
a subset ontology that is crafted to either include or exclude a taxonomic grouping of species .
an ontology module that contains axioms generated by a reasoner .
an ontology module that is automatically generated ,  for example via a sparql query or via template and a csv .
an ontology module that is automatically generated from a template specification and fillers for slots in that template .
a subset ontology that is designed for basic applications to continue to make certain simplifying assumptions ;  many of these simplifying assumptions were based on the initial version of the gene ontology ,  and have become enshrined in many popular and useful tools such as term enrichment tools .
the textual definition of the current term .
a grouping of terms from an ontology or ontologies .
an instance of synonym usage .
