the basic structural unit is a tubule composed of a single layer of epithelial cells containing ordered arrays of rough endoplasmic reticulum and a lumenal surface covered with microvilli ,  cilia ,  and structural specialization presumed to be involved in secretion .
the glandular complex in cirrates that forms sperm packets and is a counterpart of the spermatophore - forming complex of other cephalopods .
a sucker of the sepia or cuttlefish and related animals .
a female that has mature eggs  ( these are frequently stored in the oviducts )  ,  or a male that has produced spermatophores  ( these are stored in needham's sac )  .
a small flap on the lateral side of the anus .
glands on or in the buccal mass that aid in preliminary digestion .
knob that projects inward from the posterior surface of the central depression in the funnel locking - apparatus of some squids .
circular spots ,  generally light colored but often with complex pigmentation and of unknown function that occur in lines along the aboral surfaces of some arms and portions of the head in some opisthoteuthid cirrates .
one of the circumoral appendages of cephalopods .
the relative sizes of arms arranged according to their length .
the grappling structures on the oral surfaces the arms and tentacles ,  including both suckers and hooks .
type of cusp arrangement on the rachadian tooth of the radula: multiple cusps seem to move laterally when viewing successive rachadian teeth from adjacent rows .
plane through an arm of an octopod that is predisposed to break when the arm is autotomized .
see cirrate shell terminology .
one of the two chitinous jaws of cephalopods .
a ridge on the lower beak where the rostral edge merges onto the lateral wall .
a large opening at the base of each gill lamella and between the primary afferent and efferent blood vessels of the gill .
the combination of arms and tentacles that surround the mouth .
the anterior - most part of the brain located ventral to the esophagus .
elongate gland adjacent to and paralleling the gill where the gill attaches to the mantle wall .
a pulsating gland at the base of the gill and through which the afferent blood to the gills flows .
photophores located on the arms .
a very narrow and elongate anterior region of the head between the eyes and the base of the brachial crown .
medial portion of the central nervous system .
incubation of eggs by the parent .
muscular membrane that runs from the buccal support to the base of the adjacent arm .
umbrella - like structure that surrounds the mouth and is surrounded by the brachial crown .
muscular bulb at the beginning of the digestive system that contains the mouth ,  beaks ,  radula and various glands .
the muscular membrane that connects the buccal supports and together with the supports ,  forms the buccal crown .
small but normal suckers that are present on the oral surface of the buccal supports of some decapodiforms  ( bathyteuthid families ,  some loliginids and some sepiids )  .
a spermatophore receptacle found in some sepiolids and consisting of folded glandular epithelium of the lining of the mantle cavity just anterior to the oviduct opening .
the sac - like ,  thin - walled posterior portion of the caecum that lacks the internal ,  ciliated leaflets characteristic of the anterior portion of the caecum .
pouch ,  connecting the ileum with the ascending colon of the large intestine .
composed of calcium carbonate  ( caco3 ) 
the conical papilla of the end - organ of the hectocotylus in many incirrate octopods .
structure in the spermatophore that allows adhesion of the discharged spermatophore to a female .
suckers in the locking apparatus at the base of the club .
knobs in the locking apparatus at the base of the club .
the region of the tentacle that contains the carpal locking - apparatus
the region at the base of the tentacular club which has small suckers and knobs .
rigid cartilagenous spines ,  with one or several cusps ,  in the skin of certain squids and octopods .
cartilage surrounding the posterior part of the brain of cephalopods and generally encompasing the statocysts .
large vein that drains the head and lies on the ventral surface of the visceral sac ,  along side or dorsal to the intestine .
a mucopolysaccharide that is the major component of the cuticle  ( exoskeleton )  of arthropods and a major component of the gladius and beaks of cephalopods  ( also found in many other phyla )  .
a pigment cell .in cephalopods the chromatophore is part of an organ composed of numerous cells including many slender muscle cells .
a circular muscle found in the suckers of most sepioids and loliginids that surrounds the sucker at the base of the horny ring .
the male reproductive tract of cirrates does not make typical spermatophores .
measurements used in describing cirrates differ somewhat from other cephalopods .
muscular ,  conical structures that arise from the sides of the arms of some octopodiforms .
an internal body cavity of mesodermal orgin that is lined by an epithelium .
muscular structure extending from the nuchal cartilage to the funnel that forms a one - way valve that lets water enter the mantle cavity but closes as the mantle contracts thereby forcing exhalent water out through the funnel .
structures that alter the color of bioluminescent light .
the cup or cone - shaped posterior end of the gladius or cuttlebone of some cephalopods .
lateral portions of the gladius that are continuous posteriorly with the primary conus or its remnant and laterally with the edges of the vanes .
smooth ,  thin ,  turgid ,  transparent skin without muscles that covers the eyes to protect the eye lenses of incirrate octopods and some decapodiforms .
the production of bioluminescent light by an animal to conceal its silhouette against the downwelling light .
in loliginids a protective membrane on the hectocotylized arm can fuse with the adjacent suckerless papillae  ( former sucker stalks )  to form a crest on the dorsal or ventral margins such that the original form of the papillae is obscured .
expansion  ( i .e .a broading or a side pocket )  of the esophagus for storing food .
radula in which the lateral teeth are multicuspid .
the peculiar posterior end of the histioteuthis gladius that is rolled into a coil .
a point or projection on a tooth of the radula or on a cartilagenous tubercule in the skin .
a calcareous oblong supporting part of the mantle of cuttlefishes
the narrow ,  distal portion of the tentacular club of most decapodiforms .
living close to the ocean floor .
a half - gill formed from all the primary gill lamellae on one side of the gill .
vertical animal migration during twilight .
primary organ in cephalopods that secretes digestive enzymes .
outpockets of the ducts leading from the digestive gland that are covered with glandular epithelium .
an extension of the oviducal gland in octopods that often has the same general appearance as the oviduct proximal to the oviducal gland .
peculiar paralarval stage of the chiroteuthidae .
dorsal portion of the mantle cavity that completely surrounds the viscera in octopods .
vein carrying blood away from an organ .
nerve carring impulses away from the brain or specific ganglia .
a large number of eggs encapsulated in a gelatinous matrix or a large number of such structures that are attached together .
portion of the spermatophore involved in the eversion of the sperm mass .
the tip of the hectocotylus in incirrate octopods consisting of a calamus and ligula presumably for manipulating the spermatophore during copulation .
the pigmentation that is contained in epithelial cells which are unable to change their shape .
small pore just anterior to the cornea in some decapodiforms .
indentation ,  often complex ,  of the anterior margin of the eyelid .
the angle between the longitudinal axis of the mantle and the posterior border of one fin .
a fin attaches to the shell ,  the mantle ,  the opposite fin or some combination of these .
cartilage associated with the fins of all fin - bearing cephalopods .
this measurement varies in different major taxa .
the portion of a fin that extends anteriorly from the fin's anterior point of attachment or posteriorly from the fin's posterior point of attachment .
fins are located anterior to the termination of the muscular mantle  ( subterminal position )  or mostly posterior to it  ( terminal position )  or somewhere inbetween .
fins are classified ,  somewhat arbitrarily ,  by their shape as sagittate ,  rhomboid ,  circular / elliptical ,  lanceolate ,  ear - shaped ,  ribbed ,  lobate or skirt - like .
a muscular flap that arises along the lateral or dorsolateral surface of the mantle of some cephalopods .
transverse membranous fold of skin that forms a pocket in the funnel groove of ommastrephid squids .
the portion of a fin that extends anteriorly from the fin's anterior point of attachment or posteriorly from the fin's posterior point of attachment .
the ventral ,  muscular tube through which water is expelled from the mantle cavity .
depression on the posteroventral surface of the head in which the funnel lies .
the funnel component  ( generally cartilagenous )  of a locking mechanism between the funnel and mantle .
the glandular structures on the internal dorsal and ventral surfaces of the funnel .
large muscles that attach to the corners of the funnel and run posteriorly to attach to the sides of the shell sac  ( generally near the base of the gills )  or ,  in a some species ,  insert on the mantle wall .
semicircular muscular flap extending from and continuous with the posterodorsal funnel wall .
primary organ for the exchange of respiratory gases between blood and         sea water .
a complex gill leaflet that extends perpendicular to the axis of the gill and contains the respiratory epithelium .
the chitinous remnant of the shell in many decapodiforms and  < strong > vampyroteuthis <  / strong >  .
gills of some cirrate octopods with broad primary lamellae whose arrangement looks similar to half of an orange .
young cephalopod that has just hatched from the egg .
the modified arm in males used for transferring spermatophores to the female .
radula with more than one cusp on the rhachidian tooth and ,  usually ,  the first lateral tooth .
radula with a single cusp on all teeth .
the single specimen designated to represent a species name .
horny structure that looks like a single claw and is derived from the inner sucker ring in some decapodiforms .
septa ,  extending the length of the arm  ( i .e . ,  parallel to the arm axis )  ,  that roughly divides the arm into oral and aboral regions .
a chitinous ring that encircles a sucker .
a system of lobes in octopod brains: the paired posterior buccal ,  lateral inferior frontal and subfrontal lobes ,  and the single median inferior frontal lobe .
exposed flat outer ring that forms the adhesive surface of the sucker
organ composed of a gland that secretes ink ,  a sac that stores ink and a duct that connects it to the rectum .
this is the typical method of fast swimming in cephalopods .
a muscular vane that extends dorsally from the aboral surface of the tentacular club of many species .
muscles that support the lateral attachment of the funnel to the head .
the keels of arms iv are offset laterally and often enlarged to fully or partially conceal ,  protect or encase the adjacent tentacles .
sensory structure analogous to the lateral - line of fishes .
structure in a photophore that can focus or disperse bioluminescent light .
structures in a photophores that direct light via internal reflection .
the portion of the sucker - free end - organ of the hectocotylus of many incirrate octopods that is generally elongate and longitudinally grooved .
two concentric muscular ,  glandular rings of skin that surround the mouth and beaks .
largest and most recently formed chamber of the  < strong > nautilus <  / strong >  shell  ( also refers to numerous shells of fossil cephalopods )  in which the animal resides .
continuation of the carpal locking apparatus down the oral face of the tentacular stalk .
the mantle component  ( usually fibrous )  of the structure that &quot ; locks&quot ;  the mantle to the funnel .
 ( ml )   -  the standard measure of length in coleoid cephalopods .
a anteroposterior septum that connects the mantle wall with the visceral sac along the midline in the ventral mantle cavity .
the proximal ,  broad portion of the tentacular club .
in cephalopods this term refers to sexual maturity which is determined for females by the presence of ova  ( mature eggs )  free in the coelom or oviducts ,  and for males by the presence of spermatophores in needham's sac .
a major structure in molluscan morphology .
the region separating the posterior end of the cephalic cartilage and the collar .
in males ,  the large storage sac for spermatophores that is an expanded region of the genital duct at the base of the penis .
the cavity of the renal sac .
large glandular structures found in decapodiforms and nautilus that lie in and open directly into the mantle cavity .
an oblong cartilaginou plate on the posterodorsal surface of the head of most squids and cuttlefishes that articulates with a complementary structure on the inner surface of the anterodorsal surface of  the mantle
see occipital crest .
see occipital membrane .
small sensory organ with photoreceptor - like sensory cells that is located in the nuchal region of ,  apparently ,  all coleoid cephalopods .
the posterodorsal region of the head and the area immediately posterior to it .
prominent transverse ridge in most decapodiforms that extends across the dorsal and along the lateral surfaces of the head at its posterior end .
fixed folds of the head integument that adjoin the nuchal crest posteriorly and are perpendicular to it .
a membrane connecting the main occipital folds at their posterior ends .
a chemosensory organ present on the head or neck in all coleoid cephalopods .
the progressively descent into a deeper - water habitat as a cephalopod grows older and larger .
large lobes of the brain associated with the eyes .
capsule in octopodiforms that is embedded in the cephalic cartilage and contains the statocyst capsule .
gland surrounding the end of the primary oviduct and responsible for secreting some of the external coatings over spawned eggs or ,  in incirrates ,  the cement at the base of the chorion stalk  .
first free - living ,  cephalopod life - history stage that is found in the near - surface plankton and that differs in both morphology and vertical distribution from older juveniles .
the long ,  muscular end of the male gonoduct that assists in transfering spermatophores to the female .
cells in photophores that produce bioluminsecence .
organ that produces bioluminescence or &quot ; living light .&quot ;  photophores are often complex with various color filters ,  reflectors ,  light guides ,  lenses and chromatophores surrounding the site of light production ,  the photogenic region .
photophores are found in nearly any location in some squid .
non - image forming light - receptive organs located inside the cephalic cartilage in squid and on the stellate ganglion in octopods .
a fused pair of lobes that are the anterior - most lobes of the supraesophageal mass of the brain of decapodiforms but is incorporated into the anterior portion of the supraesophageal mass behind the superior buccal lobes in most octopodiforms .
large glands surrounding the buccal mass just posterior to the lips .
glands generally located just posterior to the head whose secretion travels via a duct into the buccal mass .
a thin fold of integument along lateral angles of oral surface of arms and clubs lateral to suckers usually supported by trabeculae
some male opisthoteuthid cirrates have enlarged suckers located proximally on the arms  ( proximal fields )  and / or distally on the arms  ( distal fields )  .
a mass of ink and mucous that roughly has the dimensions of the cephalopod that secreted it .
refers to an organism that is living or has lived within the past 10 , 000 years or to object formed or events within the past 10 , 000 years .
structures in a photophore that reflects bioluminscence .
a toothed ribbon that lies in the buccal mass and that aids in movement of food into the esophagus .
structures that form the nephridium  ( =kidney )  .
central axis of the gladius ,  often thickened ,  that typically extends the full length of the gladius and sometimes called the median field .
portion of the gladius that extends posteriorly or posterodorsally from the conus .
the region of the shell of cirrates connecting the lateral wings .
the shape of the shell with an elongate central region  ( saddle proper )  and broad wings found in cirroteuthid cirrates .
the most common fin - shape in squids with anterior free fin - lobes ,  a relatively sharp lateral angle and posterior elongation .
the skin of the mantle contains scales ,  tubercules and warts in various species .
a conical region at the posterior end of the gladius that is formed by an inrolling and fusion of the vanes .
an eyelid that covers the ventral part of the cornea .
a non - muscular fin - shaped structure found in some chiroteuthids ,  located posterior to the true or primary fin .
web that extends from each arm to the primary web in some incirrate octopods .
a reproductive strategy in which females spawn once then die .
 ( arm suckers )   -  a semicrescent plate on the proximal margin of the inner sucker arm rings of the loliginid squid  < strong > uroteuthis <  / strong >  .
gills of some cirrate octopods that look superficially like gills of sepioids .
the sac that secretes the shell in the coleoidea .
pockets formed by small membranous folds of integument lateral to the foveola in the funnel groove in ommastrephid and thysanoteuthid squids .
the tube - like extension of the body wall ,  coelom and an external covering tube that penetrates the phragmocone and regulates gas exchange into the phragmocone chambers .
the coiled rope of sperm that lies within the spermatophore or spermatangia .
discharged spermatophore which consists of the sperm mass surrounded by a membrane  ( the inner tunic )  with the cement gland at one end .
specialized sperm - storage structures found in the skin of some female decapodiforms or as pockets of the oviducal gland in octopods .
a packet of sperm that is formed by the male and passed to the female during mating .
region of the tentacle proximal to the club .
a sense - organ that detects gravity ,  angular accelerations and low - frequency sound .
major ganglion of the peripherial nervous system of neocoleoid cephalopods that controls nerves to the mantle muscles .
a muscular organ of the digestive system where primary digestion occurs .
remnant of the molluscan shell in incirrate octopods .
stage at which all of the characters that typically define the species are present .
muscular suction - cup on the arms and tentacles and occasionally on the buccal supports .
the longitudinal rows of suckers on the arms or tentacles of decapodiforms .
the structure between the sucker and the arm .
teeth on the inner horny sucker rings of some decapodiforms .
lobes of the central nervous system that sit atop the esophagus where the latter enters the buccal mass in decapodiforms but are the anterior - most lobes of the supraesophageal mass of the brain of octopodiforms .
muscular structures that can be raised or lowered above the eyes of octopodids but are apparent even when lowered .
nerve commissure that passes dorsal to the esophagus in most octopodiforms and connects the right and left anterior subesophageal masses of the brain .
gas - filled structure found in the dorsal region of the pelagic octopods ,   < em >  < strong > ocythoe <  / strong >  ,  <  / em >   < em >  < strong > tremoctopus <  / strong >  <  / em >  and  < em >  < strong > haliphron <  / strong >  <  / em >  .
elongate 4th circumoral appendage of cuttlefish and squids used to capture prey .
tentacles can be absent because the species lacks tentacles ,  they are accidentally lost during capture ,  or they are naturally lost at sexual maturity .
poorly understood and complex pad - like photophores that are found on the tentacular stalks of some chiroteuthidids .
a pocket that surrounds the base of each tentacle and provides some room for tentacle retraction or contraction .
fins that extend to the posterior end of the body .
a circlet or disc of small suckers at the tip of the tentacular club .
muscular cones or flaps that support the protective membranes on the arms and tentacular clubs in decapodiforms .
particular inward projecting knob in the funnel locking - apparatus of some squids .
teeth on the inner horny of rings of decapodiform suckers that do not terminate in a point but rather a broad ,  flat tip .
structures with one or more cusps just beneath the surface epithelium .
broad ,  lateral portions of the gladius that arise from the rhachis .
an eyelid that can cover much of the cornea from a ventral position in many sepioids .
the optically modified ventral mantle of heteroteuthins that usually projects anteriorly beneath the head .
tissues found in some decapodiforms that contain numberous vesicles filled with water that usually contains ammonium chloride .
a concentration of digestive organs that sometimes includes reproductive organs as well .
the body posterior to the head surrounded by the mantle .
the largest coelom in cephalopods except in the octopoda where it is greatly reduced .
one or two pairs of pores in the integument of the head that communicate with extensive spaces at the bases of arms on some pelagic argonautoid octopods .
muscular membrane that extends between the arms of many octopodiforms but is reduced or absent in most decapodiforms .
muscular rods embedded in the web of some cirrate octopods .
amorphous organ near the optic lobes that forms white blood cells .
 ( shell )   -  lateral limbs of the shell of cirrate octopods
reflective cells in the skin of some cephalopods containing numerous refractive granules on stalks that together produce a scattered reflection of ambient light .
female gonoduct .the oviduct conducts eggs from the visceropericardial coelom ,  that holds the ovary ,  to the exterior and is often used to store eggs .
terminal ,  usually expanded ,  grasping portion of tentacle that is armed with suckers or ,  in some groups ,  with suckers and hooks .
large nerve bundles that run from the optic lobe to the eye .
higher motor centers ,  located  ( for example )  in the basal lobe  ( b .l . ) 
photophore at side of anus
any of the numerous arms or tentacles that arise from the head and surround the mouth of a cephalopod
longitudinal muscular rod fused with buccal membrane
posteriorly blunt rather than broad body  ( mantle )  common in larval cephalopods
a larval chromatophore located deep beneather the integument
collection of chromatophores that produces species - specific patterns in discrete regions
chromatophores located in or near surface integument
a fleshy protruberance of skin that can be erected as a papilla ,  usually dorsal to the eyes
the phragmocone is the chambered portion of the shell of a cephalopod .
a thin turgid transparent membrane that covers the eyes of myopsid and sepioid cephalopods
minute bristle - like structure that covers the body of planktonic octopod larvae
expanded portion of gladius vane
irregular spot capable of expanding or retracting
one of a series of longitudinal folds or pleats of skin in the nuchal region
posterior extension of gladius and mantle epithelium .
a channel or groove running along the length of the hectocotylus
hard calcareous dorsal surface of the cuttlebone
glandular structures of unknown function which lie on either side of the renal papillae
the central core of the chambered nautilus shell ,  representing the juvenile shell with its initial coils
camerae  ( singular camera )  are the spaces or chambers enclosed between two adjacent septa in the phragmocone of a nautiloid or ammonoid cephalopod .
an orthocone is a usually long straight shell of a nautiloid cephalopod .
an opening in a mollusc shell
the tip of the mollusc shell of a gastropod ,  scaphopod ,  or cephalopod mollusc .
characterized by multiple reproductive cycles over the course of its lifetime
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
a pigment cell is a cell that contains pigment granules .
a cell that is specialised to accumulate a particular substance ( s )  .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the production of light by certain enzyme - catalyzed reactions in cells .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
self - propelled movement of an organism from one location to another through the air ,  usually by means of active wing movement .
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
orifice of the olfactory system .
nervous structures including ganglia outside of the central nervous system .
an organ that is capable of detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of smell .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
major subdivision of an organism that protrudes from the body [ dos ,  caro ]  .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
a biological tissue mass ,  most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
a tubular structure that transports or secretes substances .
a subdivision of the digestive tract that connects the small intestine to the cloaca or anus .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
organ region with one or more fixed or anchored fiat boundaries .
anatomical structure which has as its direct parts two or more types of tissue and is continuous with one or more anatomical structures likewise constituted by two or more portions of tissues distinct from those of their complement .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
an anatomical structure that is part of a nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
the organs associated with producing offspring in the gender that produces spermatozoa .
a spherical embryonic mass of blastomeres formed before the blastula and resulting from cleavage of the fertilized ovum .
mass of cells inside the primordial embryo that will eventually give rise to the definitive structures of the fetus .
a flattened ,  almost circular bilaminar plate of cells formed when the inner cell mass  ( aka embryoblast )  forms two epithelial layers ,  each of a distinct lineage ,  separated by an extracellular basement membrane: the external  ( dorsal )  layer is called the epiblast and the internal  ( ventral )  layer is called the hypoblast  ( aka primitive endoderm )  ;  together ,  they compose the bilaminar embryonic disc .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
the stage of being a sexually mature adult animal .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of single layer of cells connected to each other by cell junctions .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces ,  surrounded by two or more subdivisions of two or more organs .
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
an organ segment that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
the external portion of an animal body comprised of ectoderm and mesoderm layers that encloses the body cavity .
a mucosa that is part of a cecum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mucosa that is part of a colon .
a gland that is part of the intestinal mucosa .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
the mammalian blastocyst is a hollow ball of cells containing two cell types ,  the inner cell mass and the trophectoderm [ go ]  .
anatomical system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
anatomical group that is has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity [ caro ]  .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
gonad of a male animal ,  produces and releases sperm .
the organs of the female reproductive system .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
organismal subdivision of body that lies between the head and the abdomen  [ wikipedia ]  .
a protective ,  noncellular membrane that surrounds the eggs of various animals including insects and fish  [ go ]  .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
anterior part of the embryonic digestive tract that develops into a mouth .
inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into part of the anal passage [ zfa ]  .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
an organ that detects light .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
ovum - producing female reproductive organ .
passage from the ovaries to the outside of the body [ wikipedia:oviduct ]  .
an organ of the female reproductive tract in insects ,  some molluscs ,  oligochaeta worms and certain other invertebrates and vertebrates .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
a subdivision of the muscular system .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
an enclosed ,  cable - like bundle of peripheral axons  [ wikipedia ]  .
a group of neurons that provides a nervous response from a tissue [ aeo ]  .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach .
saliva - secreting exocrine glands of the oral cavity [ go ]  .
middle subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
posterior subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ]  .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
an anatomical wall that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
last portion of the digestive system in most vertebrates ;  it extracts water and salt from solid wastes before they are eliminated from the body [ wp ]  in mammals ,  the colon consists of four sections: the ascending colon ,  the transverse colon ,  the descending colon ,  and the sigmoid colon [ wp ]  .
organ part which is continuous with the cecum proximally and the transverse colon distally .
an anatomical wall that is part of a stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the gastric mucosa is the mucous membrane layer of the stomach which contains the glands and the gastric pits .
a mucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the innermost membrane of the four coats of the intestinal wall ,  the other three being the submucosa ,  muscular layers ,  and serosa .
orifice at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth .
an anatomical wall that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial layer of the stomach  .
the innermost membrane of the four coats of the intestinal wall ,  the other three being the submucosa ,  muscular layers ,  and serosa .
an epithelium that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the pelvis .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
sense organ in vertebrates that is specialized for the detection of sound ,  and the maintenance of balance .
muscle organ which is a part of the trunk .
an intralobular duct found in salivary glands and involved in the production and transport of their secretions [ bto ]  .
complex labyrinthine structure that comprises sensory endorgans specialized for vestibular ,  auditory ,  and acoustico - vestibular sensation .
organ with organ cavity which consists of the vestibular labyrinth and the cochlear labyrinth .
the part of the membranous labyrinth that includes the utricle and saccule lodged within the vestibule and the semicircular ducts lodged eccentrically in the corresponding canals .
an epithelium that is part of a esophagus .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
nonparenchymatous organ that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
a sensory system for the sense of hearing [ wp ]  .
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
body cavity subdivision which is enclosed by the thoracic wall and the diaphragm [ fma ]  .
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce exocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
a specialized region of ectoderm found between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm and composed of highly migratory pluripotent cells that delaminate in early embryonic development from the dorsal neural tube and give rise to an astounding variety of differentiated cell types [ mp ]  .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
subdivision of abdomen ,  which is demarcated from the abdomen proper by the plane of the superior pelvic aperture ,  and from the perineum by the inferior surface of the pelvic diaphragm ;  together with the abdomen proper ,  it constitutes the abdomen [ fma ]  .
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
any muscle that is part of a head [ automatically generated definition ]  .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
organ system that protects the body from damage ,  comprising the skin and its adnexa  ( including hair ,  scales ,  and nails )  .
the abdominal segment of the torso .
skeletal tissue that is avascular ,  rich in glycosaminoglycans  ( gags )  and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae .
a gland that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
epithelium that is part of the mouth and lines the oral cavity ,  typically stratified squamous ,  and may be para -  ,  ortho -  or non -  keratinized .
a mucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland is an organ in an animal's body that synthesizes a substance for release such as hormones or breast milk ,  often into the bloodstream  ( endocrine gland )  or into cavities inside the body or its outer surface  ( exocrine gland )  .
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
the saccular invagination of ectoderm from which the vertebrate inner ear develops [ bto ]  .
a thickening of the endoderm at the cranial end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells .
the intermediate mesoderm is located between the lateral mesoderm and the paraxial mesoderm .
lateral neurogenic placodes positioned dorsal of the epibranchial placodes .
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
a cranial placode which ,  once specified ,  invaginates to form an otic cup ,  which eventually separates from the surface ectoderm to form the otic vesicle or otocyst ,  a rounded structure without appar -  ent polarity .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
the cranial neural crest arises in the anterior and populates the face and the pharyngeal arches giving rise to bones ,  cartilage ,  nerves and connective tissue  [ wikipedia ]  .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
portion of tissue consisting of loosely organized undifferentiated mesodermal cells that give rise to such structures as connective tissues ,  blood ,  lymphatics ,  bone ,  and cartilage [ xao ]  .
the chorion is one of the membranes that exists during pregnancy between the developing fetus and mother .
an organ involved in reproduction
a female organ involved in reproduction
a male organ involved in reproduction
septum that divides the ovary ,  the basal portion of a carpel or group of fused carpels ,  that encloses the ovule ( s )  [ go ]  .
septum that divides the internal chambers  ( camerae )  of the shell of a cephalopod ,  namely nautiloids or ammonoids .
an epithelium that is part of a otic placode  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skeletal system that is part of a embryo  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a integumental system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a testis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a ovary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
an epithelium that is part of a midgut .
an epithelium that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
portion of tissue which consists of neurons ,  neuroglia and vasculature .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
a nerve that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a gonad  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a presumptive structure that has_potential_to_develop_into a ganglion .
an anatomical cavity that has_potential_to_develop_into a coelemic cavity lumen .
two very fine tubes lined with ciliated epithelia ,  leading from the ovaries of female mammals into the uterus ,  via the utero - tubal junction [ wp ]  .
paired ducts of the embryo that run down the lateral sides of the urogenital ridge and terminate at the mullerian eminence in the primitive urogenital sinus .
a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart
a duct that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction
the external masculine genital organs ,  including the penis and scrotum
any opening in the body .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
the external genitalia are the outer sex organs ,  such as the penis or vulva in mammals
a muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure found in mollusks and used for feeding .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
any collection of muscles that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a body wall  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a projection or outgrowth of tissue from a larger body or organ .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
a vascular network consisting of blood vessels .
the part of the venous system that drains the general body tissues [ kardong ] 
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all venous vessels .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
a specialized form of connective tissue in which the extracellular matrix is firm ,  providing the tissue with resilience ,  and / or mineralized and that functions in mechanical and structural support .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
an organ component layer that is part of a blood vessel .
an epithelium that is part of a oviduct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a salivary gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a eye .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the future body wall  -  underlies the ectoderm [ wp ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the outer  ( or somatic )  layer becomes applied to the inner surface of the ectoderm ,  and with it forms the somatopleure .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the beginning of the intestines to the anus [ go  -  gut definition ]  .
an epithelium surrounding a gonad .
an epithelium surrounding a testis .
an epithelium surrounding an ovary .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
organ component which is a part of a wall of an organ .
a mucosa that is part of an ascending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external genitalia that is part of a female reproductive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
an anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
an organ that part of the adbominal segment of the organism .
an organ that part of the trunk region .
an organ that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ that is part of the pelvic region .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
a vein that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a stomodeum .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a trunk .
a vasculature that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
a sex gland that is part of a female reproductive system .
a sex gland that is part of a male reproductive system .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
the amnion and chorion which surround and protect a developing fetus .
intrinsic membrane that arises from embryonic germ layers and grow to surround the developing embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a caecum .
an epithelium that is part of a ear vesicle .
a sensory system that is capable of olfacttion  ( the sensory perception of smell )  .
a round nodule ,  small eminence ,  or warty outgrowth found on bones ,  skin ,  or within the lungs in tuberculosis .
any of the ducts that are part of a male reproductive system .
a sheet of somatopleure that grows upward over the embryo and eventually meets in the midline enclosing the embryo ,  eventually giving rise to the amnion and chorion [ kardong ]  .
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
the auditory pit ,  also known as the otic pit ,  is the first rudiment of the internal ear .
a fold or lobe or pair of lobes of the body wall of a mollusk or brachiopod that in shell - bearing forms lines the shell and bears shell - secreting glands .
within the shell is a fleshy layer of tissue called the mantle ;  there is a cavity  ( the mantle cavity )  between the mantle and the body wall proper .
a muscle organ that is part of a mantle .
a balance sensory receptor present in some aquatic invertebrates [ wp ]  .
exoskeleton or shell ,  including those of mollusks ,  turtles ,  insects and crustaceans .
a rigid covering that envelops an object .
a valve that is part of a vein .
epithelium composed of secretory cells .
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
a glandular epithelium that lines the stomach .
simple columnar epithelium that constitutes the secretory part of a gland .
a mucosa of stomach that is part of a stomach glandular region .
an epithelium that is part of a vestibular labyrinth .
simple columnar epithelium made up of cells specialized to serve as sensory cells for the reception of external stimuli ,  as the sensory cells of the cochlea ,  vestibule ,  nasal mucosa ,  and tongue .
an epithelium that is part of a internal ear .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
the collection of structures that form the extenal covering of the organism .
ganglion which is located in the trunk .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
any collection of muscles that is part of an appendage .
a presumptive structure that has_potential_to_develop_into a neural plate .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a vasculature that is part of a limb / fin .
the space within an epithelial sphere .
a domain of columnar epithelium in an embryo that represents the early stage of the development of the epithelial component of a new anatomical structure .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
anatomical structure in which parts of two or more anatomical structures establish physical continuity with one another or intermingle their component parts .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
an embryonic structure that is derived from the inner cell mass and lies above the hypoblast and gives rise to the three primary germ layers
an external organ of a male organism that is specialized to deliver sperm during copulation .
a head that is part of a embryo .
an organ part that is part of a stomach .
a gonad prior to differentiating into a definitive testis or ovary .
a vein that is part of a craniocervical region .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
mesenchyme that is part of a otic placode .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
mesenchyme that is part of a ear vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a hindgut .
a ganglion that is part of a abdominal segment of trunk .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
cranial placode with neurogenic potential [ cjm ]  .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
an organ of the digestive tract that is capable of retaining and storing food
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
mesenchyme that is part of a extraembryonic membrane .
epithelium that derives from the ectoderm .
mesenchyme that develops_from a somatopleure .
a muscle organ that is part of a craniocervical region .
a multi cell component structure that is part of a central nervous system .
anatomical structure ,  which consists of a specific set of the members of  ( predominantly )  one organ or organ part subclass interconnected by zones of continuity or body substances ;  is demarcated from other subdivisions of the same organ system by one or more zones of continuity or anatomical lines ;  together with other subdivisions of the same organ system ,  it constitutes an organ system .
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its anterio - posterior axis .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
a nerve that is part of a head .
a stomach region that has_part a stomach glandular epithelium .
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
any vein within the general circulation that transports blood back to the right atrium of the heart .
musculature of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
anatomical projection that is part of the integumentl system .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a part of the body present only in a specific gender .
a part of the body present only in males .
a part of the body present only in females .
a duct that is located within a lobule ,  with no more connective tissue intervening between ducts and secretory units  ( i .e . ,  acini or tubules )  than between adjacent secretory units .
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
away from or opposite the mouth .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone or cartilage tissue .
