diseases originating in the skin and systemic diseases with cutaneous manifestations or sequelae .
psoriasis where bacterial infection is judged to be the triggering cause with or without genetic predisposition
psoriasis where fungal infection is judged to be the triggering cause with or without genetic predisposition
diseases involving the appendages of the skin: the hair ,  nails ,  sebaceous glands ,  sweat glands ,  and mammary glands .
psoriasis occurring in patients with hiv infection
a rare familial variant of facial follicular atrophy which results in bald areas on the scalp and eyebrows .
neutrophilic eccrine hidradenitis is a disorder of the eccrine sweat glands that usually develops 7 - 14 days after initiating chemotherapy .
grover's disease results in small red ,  bumpy spots  ( papules )  on the central back ,  mid chest and occasionally elsewhere .
inflammatory non - comedonal pustular eruption ,  most commonly observed on the cheeks ,  and less often on the forehead ,  chin ,  scalp and chest .
eosinophilic pustular folliculitis in infancy is a rare ,  self - limiting disorder of unknown etiology that occurs during infancy .
psoriasis of the anogenital region
systemic endocrine disease with cutaneous sequelae
an autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutation in the fgfr2 gene .
impaired thermoregulation ,  abnormal sweating often in response to cold / low temperatures .
congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the ntrk1 gene on chromosome 1q23
an autosomal dominant ,  hereditary auto - inflammatory disease arising from mutations in the pstpip1 / cd2bp1 gene on chromosome 15q .
hidradenitis suppurativa ,  a familial form .
eccrine and apocrine .
inflammatory arthritis associated psoriasis
idiopathic plantar hidradenitis is an uncommon condition affecting children where tender ,  red lumps appear on the soles and palms .
form of acne resulting from various chemical exposures as well as particular environmental and physical factors .
chloracne is a rare skin condition caused by certain toxic halogenated aromatic hydrocarbon chemicals ,  including the dioxins .
oil folliculitis is inflammation of hair follicles due to exposure to various oils in the workplace .
tar acne is inflammation of hair follicles due to exposure to various tars / tar products in the workplace .
a form of acne triggered by excess heat ,  pressure ,  or friction on the skin .
acne developing in areas of skin chronically exposed to follicle - occluding cosmetics .
halogenodermas are rare skin reactions related to high levels of halogens in the body .
iodide - induced acne
bromide - induced acne
psoriasis occurring in the scalp
acne keloidalis refers to the presence of keloid - like papules and plaques on the occipital scalp and posterior neck .
hypertrichosis represents the growth of hair in an excessive amount ,  whereas hirsutism is excessive growth of terminal hairs in a male pattern in a female patient .
generalized hypertrichosis is the presence of lanugo hair ,  excess vellus hair ,  or terminal hair on much of the cutaneous surface ,  including an acquired transformation of terminal hair into lanugo hair .
this is a rare autosomal dominant disease in which lanugo hair is not replaced by normal vellus hair .
form of psoriasis where pustules are seen on the tips of the fingers and toes often followed by crusting and scaling .
erythrasma is a superficial and often chronic skin infection caused by excessive proliferation of corynebacterium minutissimum within the stratum corneum .
non - blanchable erythema of intact skin which heralds skin ulceration .
partial - thickness skin loss involving the epidermis ,  dermis or both .
full - thickness skin loss with damage to the subcutaneous tissue ,  extending down to  ( but not including )  the underlying fascia .
full - thickness skin loss and extensive tissue necrosis with destruction extending to muscle ,  bone ,  or supporting structures such as tendons or joint capsules .
edematous ,  pink to red follicular papules and pustules ,  primarily on the trunk ,  due to pseudomonas aeruginosa in the setting of use of a hot tub / whirlpool 12 - 48 hours prior to onset .
pustules in the facial t - zone and in a perinasal distribution ,  due to klebsiella ,  enterobacter and proteus spp .
bacterial folliculitis of the beard and / or mustache areas ,  usually caused by staphylococcus aureus .
furuncles are a deep infection of hair follicles .
the state of being affected by furuncles .
pruritic follicular papules and occasionally pustules ,  primarily on the back ,  chest and shoulders ,  due to pityrosporum infection .
tinea barbae is an infection of the beard and moustache areas of the face with a dermatophyte fungus .
pustular folliculitis due to herpes simplex infection .
group of disorders leading to clusters of multiple follicular papules ,  each with a keratotic spine .
skin - colored to pink follicular papules and follicular spines favor the central face and they may be accompanied by loss of the eyebrows and eyelashes ;  extrafacial lesions with associated alopecia may also develop .
acne vulgaris is a chronic skin condition in which blockage or inflammation of the  pilosebaceous units occurs .
an acneiform eruption that occurs in newborns or infants ,  and is often seen on the nose and adjacent portions of the cheek .
a type of acne lesion ,  which develops when plugs of skin cells and oil become trapped within the hair follicle and the pore opening is obstructed .
acne with dome - shaped papules showing a conspicuous dilated follicular opening that is filled with an inspissated core of shed keratin .
visible efflorescent lesions of the skin caused by acne or resembling acne .
form of acne where cysts are deeper and filled with a combination of pus and serosanguineous fluid .
inflammatory acne persisting beyond 25 years of age which typically features tender ,  deep - seated papulonodules on the lower third of the face ,  jawline and neck .
severe scarring acne associated with fever ,  polyarthralgia ,  crusted ulcerative lesions ,  weight loss ,  and anemia .
very severe and chronic form of acne vulgaris in which inflammatory lesions predominate and run together and often forming exudates or bleeding .
the combination of major acne ,  pilonidal sinus ,  chronic scalp folliculitis ,  and hidradenitis suppurativa .
a complication of acne vulgaris  with distortion of the midline face and cheeks due to soft tissue swelling .
self induced acne lesions caused by patient excoriation ,  showing redness and inflammation ,  open sores ,  and scabs .
acne induced by drug exposure or treatment .
follicular acneiform eruption that results from exposure to extreme heat .
radiation acne is a side effect of external beam ionizing radiation .
rosacea is a chronic red rash involving the central face .
erythematotelangiectatic rosacea is a term that covers individuals who have a tendency for flushing ,  combined with a background of persistent facial erythema and sometimes telangiectasias .
papulopustular rosacea is characterized by a centrofacial eruption of multiple ,  small  (  < 3 mm )  ,  dome - shaped ,  erythematous papules ,  some of which are surmounted by a seropustule .
rosacea involving hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands of the affected region .
ocular rosacea may of may not be accompanied by cutaneous signs .
rhinophyma is a hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands in nasal skin .
erythematotelangiectatic rosacea is a term that covers individuals who have a tendency for flushing ,  combined with a background of persistent facial erythema and sometimes telangiectasias .
erythematotelangiectatic rosacea is a term that covers individuals who have a tendency for flushing ,  combined with a background of persistent facial erythema and sometimes telangiectasias .
erythematotelangiectatic rosacea is a term that covers individuals who have a tendency for flushing ,  combined with a background of persistent facial erythema and sometimes telangiectasias .
ocular rosacea may of may not be accompanied by cutaneous signs .
ocular rosacea may of may not be accompanied by cutaneous signs .
ocular rosacea may of may not be accompanied by cutaneous signs .
papulopustular rosacea is characterized by a centrofacial eruption of multiple ,  small  (  < 3 mm )  ,  dome - shaped ,  erythematous papules ,  some of which are surmounted by a seropustule .
papulopustular rosacea is characterized by a centrofacial eruption of multiple ,  small  (  < 3 mm )  ,  dome - shaped ,  erythematous papules ,  some of which are surmounted by a seropustule .
papulopustular rosacea is characterized by a centrofacial eruption of multiple ,  small  (  < 3 mm )  ,  dome - shaped ,  erythematous papules ,  some of which are surmounted by a seropustule .
rosacea involving hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands of the affected region .
rosacea involving hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands of the affected region .
rosacea involving hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands of the affected region .
hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands of the central chin .
hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands ,  causing swelling of the ears ,  primarily affecting the lower half of the helices and the lobes of the ears .
cushion - like ,  firm swelling of central forehead ,  caused by hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands .
hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands of the eyelids ,  leading to swelling of the eyelids .
rosacea fulminans is characterized by the explosive onset of inflammatory papules and pustules superimposed on a background of facial erythema and sometimes even accompanied by fever .
persistent red - brown to skin - colored facial papules with a characteristic non - caseating granulomatous histology is referred to as granulomatous rosacea .
disorder presenting like rosacea .
periorificial dermatitis ,  has a superficial resemblance to rosacea but the morphology of the lesions  -  grouped tiny superficial papulovesicles or papulopustules in the same stage of development rather than larger crops of papules and pustules in varying stages of development  -  and the distribution of the lesions usually indicate the correct diagnosis .
rosaceiform dermatitis refers to a drug eruption caused by the application of topical calcineurin inhibitors to the face .
steroid - induced rosacea presents with erythema ,  papules ,  pustules and sometimes telangiectasias and atrophy due to repeated applications of potent topical corticosteroid preparations to the face .
pityriasus fulliculorum is characerized by a roughened ,  whitish ,  scaling skin surface  superimposed on a background of faint erythema plus scattered fine papules and pustules .
haber's syndrome is a rare familial genodermatosis characterized by early - onset facial erythema ,  verrucous papules ,  truncal keratotic lesions and pitted atrophic scars .
disorder of the hair follicles .
infection of the hair follicles .
infection of the hair follicles ,  limited to only the superficial follicles .
scarring form of deep folliculitis ,  typically affecting the beard area ;  may be caused by s . aureus ,  chronic course ,  refractory to treatment .
follicular pustules in the sites of application or exposure to irritant ,  often after application of topical medications .
folliculitis caused by infection of a dermatophyte fungus .
majocchi granuloma is a deep and persistent suppurative folliculitis caused by dermatophyte fungi .
pruritic satellite pustules surrounding areas of intertriginous candidiasis .
erythematous follicular papules and pustules on the face ,  often with a background of diffuse erythema .
acute eruption of monomorphic erythematous follicular papules and pustules on the trunk ,  shoulders and upper arms after exposure to a therapeutic agent .
development of follicular pustules on the upper trunk and arms 24 - 30 hours after first sun exposure of the summer .
eosinophilic folliculitis is a recurrent skin disorder of unknown cause .
eosinophilic pustular folliculitis is characterized by recurrent episodes of eruptive ,  intensely pruritic ,  follicular papulopustules .
a pruritic papular eruption with histologic features that are similar to eosinophilic pustular folliculitis can develop in hiv - infected patients ,  many of whom fulfill the criteria for aids .
hundreds of uniform ,  skin - colored papules that have been likened to goose bumps .
a follicular disorder that involves the lateral cheeks and sometimes the lateral aspects of the neck .
keratosis pilaris atrophicans encompasses a group of disorders in which the abnormality in follicular keratinization is accompanied by atrophy and scarring alopecia .
facial follicular atrophy .
facial follicular atrophy ,  resulting in severe worm - eaten appearance of the cheeks .
facial follicular atrophy which results in bald areas on the scalp due to follicular pustules .
follicular papules of various sizes with conical keratotic plugs favor the extensor surfaces of the extremities ,  but may then spread to involve other locations .
infection of the hair follicles ,  also affecting the deeper structures of the skin .
infection of the bearded part of a man's face ,  caused by a bacterial infection .
dermatophyte folliculitis of the beard area  ( most often the chin )  ,  usually caused by zoophilic organisms .
rapid development of individual and grouped follicular pustules and vesicles on an erythematous base in the beard area ,  due to spread of herpes simplex virus spread to the area .
pseudofolliculitis barbae is a common chronic inflammatory disorder occurring most often in the beard area of men who shave .
hidradenitis suppurativa targets apocrine gland - bearing skin sites ,  in particular the axillae and anogenital region .
hidradenitis suppurativa with one or more abscesses with no sinus tract or scar formation .
hidradenitis suppurativa with one or more widely separated recurrent abscesses ,  with sinus tract and scar formation .
hidradenitis suppurativa with multiple interconnected tracts and abscesses throughout an affected region .
trichostasis spinulosa is a common but often underdiagnosed follicular disorder of unknown etiology .
hyperhidrosis is the name given to excessive and uncontrollable sweating .
primary hyperhidrosis is defined as excessive sweating in localized areas that is not associated with a systemic disorder .
primary hyperhidrosis localized to the palms of the hands and soles of the feet .
primary hyperhidrosis localized to the axillae .
secondary hyperhidrosis is caused by or associated with another systemic disorder .
hyperhidrosis due to elevated body temperature or direct hypothalamic stimulation .
increased sweating due to the pharmacological effects of certain drugs after administration .
physiologic medullary hyperhidrosis is most commonly triggered by spicy foods ,  alcohol and citrus fruits .
this disorder arises after disruption of nerves .
auriculotemporal syndrome is common after parotid surgery ,  presenting with gustatory flushing ,  but usually no obvious sweating .
this disorder results from transposition of sympathetic sudomotor and parasympathetic secretomotor fibers to the submandibular gland that are carried in the chorda tympani nerve .
any injury or disease process that severs or interferes with the reticulospinal tracts of the cord can disrupt the sweating reflex .
autonomic dysreflexia is a syndrome that may occur with spinal injury at or above t6 .
the sweat glands of one area become hyperactive in an effort to compensate for hypo -  or anhidrosis ,  caused by denervation or disease ,  in another .
direct stimulation of eccrine sweat glands by heat or sudomimetic drugs can lead to localized sweating .
reduced sweating .
disruption of the central sweating centres of the brain resulting in decreased or absent sweating .
disruption of the innervation of the sweat glands at any level below the central nervous system leading to reduced or absent sweating .
inability to produce sweat
anhidrosis induced by drug administration ,  often with anticholinergic effects .
reduced sweating due to the pharmacological effects of certain drugs after administration .
disorder due to obstruction of the eccrine sweat gland .
disorder due to obstruction of the eccrine sweat gland at the level of the stratum corneum .
disorder due to obstruction of the eccrine sweat gland at the level of the mid - epidermis .
disorder due to obstruction of the eccrine sweat gland at the level of the dermal - epidermal junction .
disorder due to obstruction of the eccrine sweat gland at the level of the stratum corneum .
disorder due to obstruction of the eccrine sweat gland leading to inflammation and bacterial infection .
bromhidrosis is a condition of abnormal or offensive body odour ,  originating from the eccrine sweat glands .
eccrine chromhidrosis refers to the secretion of pigmented / coloured sweat .
apocrine chromhidrosis refers to the secretion of pigmented  ( yellow ,  green or black )  sweat .
rare inherited condition where hyperhidrosis of the nose is followed by macular erythema ;  papules and vesicles can also develop .
keratolysis exfoliativa is a common ,  asymptomatic ,  superficial desquamative process of palmar and  ( less often )  plantar skin ;  it usually worsens in warm weather and is occasionally associated with hyperhidrosis .
multiple sweat gland abscesses represent a rare disorder of newborn infants that is likely due to a secondary staphylococcal infection of miliaria lesions .
disorder of the appocrine sweat gland .
fox - fordyce disease is characterised by the development of itchy bumps around the hair follicles of the underarm area ,  pubic region ,  and / or around the nipples .
is cold - induced sweating syndrome when seen in infants .
plaque psoriasis is the most common presentation of psoriasis .
psoriais presenting in young people and adolescents as small  ( 0 .5 - 1 .5 cm in diameter )  lesions over the upper trunk and proximal extremities .
psoriasis associated with erthroderma
psoriasis presenting as widespread pustules on a background of red and tender skin .
chronic pustular psoriasis affecting the palms and soles .
facial follicular atrophy ,  with involvement of the outer eyebrows .
disorder of the hair shaft ,  follicle and associated structures
