food security is the area of research concerned with physical and economic access ,  by all people at all times ,  to the basic food they need  [ agrovoc ,  al 19 .6 .2019 ] 
hydrogeology is the subfield of geology that is concerned with the study of water on or below the surface of the earth .
linguistics is the scientific study of language and its structure .
cartography is the art and science of the production of maps .
forest management is a branch of forestry concerned with overall administrative ,  economic ,  legal ,  and social aspects ,  as well as scientific and technical aspects ,  such as silviculture ,  protection ,  and forest regulation .
plant nutrition is the science of plant nutrients and their relation to plant health and disease .
civil engineering is the branch of engineering that deals with the design ,  construction ,  and maintenance of works of public utility ,  especially those relating to social infrastructure .
farming system research is an approach designed to generate relevant technologies for specific clients ,  most commonly ,  the resource - limited farm households .
plant cultivation is the practice of growing and nurturing plants outside of their wild habitat  ( i .e . ,  in gardens ,  nurseries ,  arboreta )  .
agriculture is the science ,  art ,  or practice of cultivating the soil ,  producing crops ,  and raising livestock and in varying degrees the preparation and marketing of the resulting products .
agronomy is the science of crop production and soil management .
econometrics is the application of mathematics and statistics to the study of economic and financial data .
economics is the branch of social science that deals with the production and distribution and consumption of goods and services and their management )  .
geochemistry is defined as the study of the processes that control the abundance ,  composition ,  and distribution of chemical compounds and isotopes in geologic environments .
animal physiology is the study of the normal processes and metabolic functions of animal organisms .
plant physiology is concerned with the study of the function and chemical reactions within the various organs of plants .
ergonomics is the scientific discipline concerned with the understanding of interactions among humans and other elements of a system ,  and the profession that applies theory ,  principles ,  data and methods to design in order to optimize human well - being and overall system performance .
animal nutrition is the science of feeds and their nutrients ,  their relation to animal health and disease ;  for providing feeds to animals use  [ agrovoc ,  al 28 .3 .19 ] 
agricultural law is the study of the special laws and regulations that apply to the production and sale of agricultural products .
economic policy covers the systems for setting levels of taxation ,  government budgets ,  the money supply and interest rates as well as the labour market ,  national ownership ,  and many other areas of government interventions into the economy .
fisheries science is the academic discipline of managing and understanding fisheries .
geodesy is the science of accurately measuring and understanding three fundamental properties of the earth: its geometric shape ,  its orientation in space ,  and its gravity field— as well as the changes of these properties with time .
geophysics is the branch of science concerned with the physics of the earth and the processes which affect it ;  the application of the principles ,  methods ,  and techniques of physics to the study of the earth ,  esp .
logistics engineering is a field of engineering dedicated to the scientific organization of the purchase ,  transport ,  storage ,  distribution ,  and warehousing of materials and finished goods .
environmental science is a broad interdisciplinary field in which ecologists work with other physical ,  chemical ,  and biological researchers to study and seek solutions to environmental problems .
horticulture is the research area concerned with the cultivation or management of gardens ,  including the growing of flowers ,  fruits ,  and vegetables .
hydraulic engineering as a sub - discipline of civil engineering is concerned with the flow and conveyance of fluids ,  principally water and sewage .
hydrology is the scientific study of the movement ,  distribution ,  and quality of water on earth and other planets ,  including the water cycle ,  water resources and environmental watershed sustainability .
urban planning is the planning and regulation of building ,  development ,  reconstruction ,  etc . ,  in an urban area  [ oxford english dictionary ,  al 08 .05 .18 ] 
animal breeding is a branch of agriculture that addresses the controlled improvement of selected characteristics of livestock .
life science is the study of all of the divisions of the natural sciences dealing with the various aspects of the phenomena of life and vital processes .
limnology is the study of the physical ,  chemical ,  hydrological ,  and biological aspects of fresh water bodies .
mechanical engineering applies the principles of engineering ,  physics and materials science to the design ,  analysis ,  manufacture and maintenance of mechnical systems .
mineralogy is a subfield of geology specializing in the scientific study of the chemistry ,  crystal structure ,  and physical  ( including optical )  properties of minerals and mineralized artifacts .
acoustics is the branch of physics concerned with the properties and phenomena of sound ,  sometimes esp .
plant genetics is the scientific study of the hereditary material of plants for purposes such as hybridization ,  improved food resources and increased production .
aquaculture is the farming of aquatic organisms in both coastal and inland areas involving interventions in the rearing process to enhance production .
photogrammetry is the technique of using photographs to ascertain measurements of what is photographed ,  esp .
physical geography is the branch of geography concerned with the natural features of the earth ,  as distinct from its political divisions ,  economic activity ,  etc .
plant breeding is the research area concerned with raising a certain type of plant by crossing one variety with another to produce a new variety where the desired characteristics are strongest .
plant ecology is a subdiscipline of ecology which studies the distribution and abundance of plants ,  the effects of environmental factors upon the abundance of plants ,  and the interactions among and between plants and other organisms .
public finance is the theory and practice of governmental money matters ,  including taxation ,  spending ,  transfer and property incomes ,  borrowing ,  debt and revenue management .
remote sensing is the acquisition of information about an object or phenomenon without making physical contact with the object and thus in contrast to on - site observation ,  especially the earth .
rural and agricultural sociology is a field of sociology traditionally associated with the study of social structure and conflict in rural areas and agricultural settings .
atmospheric science is the study of the dynamics and chemistry of the layers of gas that surround the earth ,  other planets and moons .
social anthropology is the study of human societies where the culture and its continuity  ( including narratives ,  rituals ,  and symbolic behavior associated with them )  are seen as a dependent variable ,  embedded in its historical and social context ,  rather than the independent variable .
social policy is concerned with the ways societies across the world meet human needs for security ,  education ,  work ,  health and wellbeing .
soil science is the study of the properties ,  occurrence ,  and management of soil as a natural resource .
water management is the activity of planning ,  developing ,  distributing and optimum use of water resources under defined water polices and regulations .
animal husbandry is the branch of agriculture concerned with animals that are raised for meat ,  fibre ,  milk ,  eggs ,  or other products .
agricultural economics is an applied social science that deals with the production ,  distribution ,  and consumption of agricultural or farming goods and services .
agricultural engineering is a discipline concerned with developing and improving the means for providing food and fiber for mankind's needs .
knowledge and information systems create ,  share ,  and manage knowledge and information .
agroecology is the study of ecological processes applied to agricultural production systems .
the study of evolutionary relationships amongst organisms .
the study of gene or protein functions and their interactions in totality in a given organism ,  tissue ,  cell etc .
the conceptualisation ,  categorisation and nomenclature  ( naming )  of entities or phenomena within biology or bioinformatics .
the elucidation of the three dimensional structure for all  ( available )  proteins in a given organism .
the integrated study of evolutionary relationships and whole genome data ,  for example ,  in the analysis of species trees ,  horizontal gene transfer and evolutionary reconstruction .
the influence of genotype on drug response ,  for example by correlating gene expression or single - nucleotide polymorphisms with drug efficacy or toxicity .
the design and chemical synthesis of bioactive molecules ,  for example drugs or potential drug compounds ,  for medicinal purposes .
deposition and curation of database accessions ,  including annotation ,  typically with terms from a controlled vocabulary .
the study and practice of information processing and use of computer information systems .
organism classification ,  identification and naming .
plants ,  e .g .information on a specific plant genome including molecular sequences ,  genes and annotation .
study of viruses ,  e .g .
the study  ( typically comparison )  of the sequence ,  structure or function of multiple genomes .
the application of information technology to chemistry in biological research environment .
the holistic modelling and analysis of complex biological systems and the interactions therein .
the molecular basis of biological activity ,  particularly the macromolecules  ( e .g .
the degree of variation of life forms within a given ecosystem ,  biome or an entire planet .
the genes and genetic mechanisms such as mendelian inheritance that underly continuous phenotypic traits  ( such as height or weight )  .
the distribution of allele frequencies in a population of organisms and its change subject to evolutionary processes including natural selection ,  genetic drift ,  mutation and gene flow .
the development of organisms between the one - cell stage  ( typically the zygote )  and the end of the embryonic stage .
the form and function of the structures of living organisms .
the development and use of architectures ,  policies ,  practices and procedures for management of data .
the systematic study of metabolites ,  the chemical processes they are involved ,  and the chemical fingerprints of specific cellular processes in a whole cell ,  tissue ,  organ or organism .
the study of the epigenetic modifications of a whole cell ,  tissue ,  organism etc .
the study of genetic material recovered from environmental samples ,  and associated environmental data .
the protection of data ,  such as patient health data ,  from damage or unwanted access from unauthorised users .
chemical substances and physico - chemical processes and that occur within living organisms .
the study of evolutionary relationships amongst organisms from analysis of genetic information  ( typically gene or protein sequences )  .
the exploitation of biological process ,  structure and function for industrial purposes ,  for example the genetic manipulation of microorganisms for the antibody production .
phenomes ,  or the study of the change in phenotype  ( the physical and biochemical traits of organisms )  in response to genetic and environmental factors .
the evolutionary processes ,  from the genetic to environmental scale ,  that produced life in all its diversity .
the functions of living organisms and their constituent parts .
the study of the nervous system and brain ;  its anatomy ,  physiology and function .
the development and application of theory ,  analytical methods ,  mathematical models and computational simulation of biological systems .
the analysis of transcriptomes ,  or a set of all the rna molecules in a specific cell ,  tissue etc .
the study of numbers  ( quantity )  and other topics including structure ,  space ,  and change .
the theory and practical use of computer systems .
the study of matter ,  space and time ,  and related concepts such as energy and force .
the structure and function of genes at a molecular level .
the discovery and design of drugs or potential drug compounds .
'translating' the output of basic and biomedical research into better diagnostic tools ,  medicines ,  medical procedures ,  policies and advice .
any matter ,  surface or construct that interacts with a biological system .
the use of synthetic chemistry to study and manipulate biological systems .
the study of the separation ,  identification ,  and quantification of the chemical components of natural and artificial materials .
the use of chemistry to create new compounds .
the process of bringing a new drug to market once a lead compounds has been identified through drug discovery .
the process of formulating abd administering a pharmaceutical compound to achieve a therapeutic effect .
the study of organisms in the ocean or brackish waters .
the identification of molecular and genetic causes of disease and the development of interventions to correct them .
the study of the effects of food components on the metabolism ,  health ,  performance and disease resistance of humans and animals .
the collective characterisation and quantification of pools of biological molecules that translate into the structure ,  function ,  and dynamics of an organism or organisms .
an interdisciplinary field of study that looks at the dynamic systems of the human body as part of an integrted whole ,  incoporating biochemical ,  physiological ,  and environmental interactions that sustain life .
topic concerning the branch of medicine that deals with the prevention ,  diagnosis ,  and treatment of disease ,  disorder and injury in animals .
the branch of medicine dealing with the diagnosis ,  treatment and prevention of disease in older people ,  and the problems specific to aging .
the prevention of pain and the evaluation ,  treatment and rehabilitation of persons in pain .
anaesthesia and anaesthetics .
the multidisciplinary that cares for patients with acute ,  life - threatening illness or injury .
the study ,  diagnosis ,  prevention and treatments of disorders of the oral cavity ,  maxillofacial area and adjacent structures .
the branch of medicine that deals with the prevention ,  diagnosis ,  and treatment of disorders of the ear ,  nose and throat .
the study of the biological and physiological differences between males and females and how they effect differences in disease presentation and management .
the branch of medicine that treats body wounds or shock produced by sudden physical injury ,  as from violence or accident .
the branch of medicine that deals with the diagnosis ,  management and prevention of poisoning and other adverse health effects caused by medications ,  occupational and environmental toxins ,  and biological agents .
the branch of medicine that deals with the medical care of infants ,  children and adolescents .
medical therapies that fall beyond the scope of conventional medicine but may be used alongside it in the treatment of disease and ill health .
the application of mathematics to specific problems in science ,  typically by the formulation and analysis of mathematical models .
the study of abstract mathematical concepts .
the control of data entry and maintenance to ensure the data meets defined standards ,  qualities or constraints .
the study of organisms in freshwater ecosystems .
the study of inheritatnce in human beings .
health problems that are prevalent in tropical and subtropical regions .
biotechnology applied to the medical sciences and the development of medicines .
an approach to medicine whereby decisions ,  practices and are tailored to the individual patient based on their predicted response or risk of disease .
the ecology of microorganisms including their relationship with one another and their environment .
a medical specialty concerned with diagnosis and treatment of lung disorders and other breathing problems .
a surgical specialty that focuses on diagnosis and management of disorders of the arterial ,  venous and lymphatic systems ,  other than the intracranial vessels and the heart .
a method of study that relates annotated genomic information to global protein expression in order to determine the relationship between genomic sequences and both expressed proteins and predicted peptide sequences ;  these studies can identify novel coding regions .
the condition of information that describes its credibility ,  authenticity ,  and appropriateness for its function .
an investigation that tests a drug ,  procedure or medical treatment in animals to determine any toxic effects before trials can be carried out in humans .
research concerned with the application of biological and physiological principles to clinical medicine .
research conducted with human subjects or on material of human origin in which an investigator directly interacts with human subjects ;  includes development of new technologies ,  study of mechanisms of human diseases ,  therapy ,  clinical trials ,  epidemiologic ,  behavior ,  and health services research .
a multidisciplinary field of inquiry that examines the costs ,  quality ,  accessibility ,  delivery ,  organization ,  financing ,  and outcomes of health care services .
a method of treating disease ,  esp .
a study of the complete set of glycans produced in a given cell or organism under specific conditions .
the branch of science concerned with origin and development of humans in all their physical ,  social ,  and cultural relationships .
the art or science of building ;  especially ,  the art of building houses ,  churches ,  bridges ,  and other structures ,  for the purposes of civil life
artificial intelligence is the branch of computer science that deals with writing computer programs that can solve problems creatively .
the scientific study of living organisms .
physics as applied to biological problems ;  an interdisciplinary science that applies theories and methods of the physical sciences to questions of biology .
chemical engineering ;  engineering dealing with the industrial application of chemistry .
the science of the composition ,  structure ,  properties ,  and reactions of matter ,  especially of atomic and molecular systems .
the department responsible for performing chemical and enzymatic analyses of body fluids and tissues .
a branch of chemistry that deals specifically with the structures ,  synthesis and reactions of carbon - containing compounds .
the branch of chemistry dealing with the physical properties of chemical substances .
the application of informatics methods to manage medical information and improve healthcare .
a pattern of learned beliefs ,  values ,  and behavior that are shared within a group .
the statistical characterization of human populations or segments of human populations  ( e .g . ,  characterization by age ,  sex ,  race ,  or income )  .
the branch of medicine focused on the study of the skin ,  and responsible for the medical management of its associated diseases .
the study of how a multicellular organism develops from its early immature forms  ( e .g . ,  zygote ,  larva ,  embryo )  into an adult .
the branch of biology concerned with the relations between organisms and their environment .
that branch of physiology that is concerned with the electric phenomena associated with living bodies and involved in their functional activity .
the discipline concerned with the application of scientific knowledge to solve practical issues in commerce or industry .
entomology ;  the branch of zoology that studies insects .
the study of the causes ,  incidence and distribution of disease in the population and its application for prevention or control .
the application of medical knowledge to questions of law ;  research ,  reports and testimony in court by experts in medical science to assist in determining a legal question .
the branch of medicine that focuses on diagnosis and treatment of conditions affecting the gastrointestinal tract .
the branch of biology that deals with heredity ,  especially the mechanisms of hereditary transmission and the variation of inherited characteristics among similar or related organisms
the science that deals with the world and its inhabitants ;  a description of the earth ,  or a portion of the earth ,  including its structure ,  features ,  products ,  political divisions ,  and the people by whom it is inhabited .
the branch of medicine that deals with the diseases and hygiene of women .
the branch of medicine that deals with the blood and blood - forming organs and the diseases thereof .
a sub - field of genetics that uses both genetic and immunological analyses to study the genetics behind antibody formation and the immune response .
the science that deals with the study of microorganisms ,  including algae ,  archaea ,  bacteria ,  fungi ,  protozoa ,  and viruses .
a branch of medicine concerned with the development ,  anatomy ,  function ,  and dysfunction of the kidney .
a branch of medicine concerned with the development ,  anatomy ,  function ,  and dysfunction of the nervous system .
a branch of neuroscience concerned with the physiology of the nervous system .
nuclear medicine is the branch of medicine that uses radioactive materials either to image a patient's body or to destroy diseased cells .
a medical - surgical specialty dealing with the care of a woman and her offspring during pregnancy ,  childbirth and the puerperium  ( the period shortly after birth )  .
this branch of medicine is concerned with the prevention ,  diagnosis ,  and treatment of injuries and illnesses that occur at the workplace or as a result of toxic exposures ,  stress ,  or accidents at the workplace .
a medical specialty concerned with the structure and function of the eye and the medical and surgical treatment of its defects and diseases .
the study of pharmacologic agents .
the medical speciality that deals with the medical management of mental disorders .
the study of behavior and cognition .
the branch of psychology that deals with the diagnosis and treatment of psychological and behavioral problems .
a branch of psychology concerned with educational techniques and assessment of academic aptitude .
a branch of medicine concerned with the relationship between emotion and body function .
the science and practice of protecting and improving the health of a community ,  as by preventive medicine ,  health education ,  control of communicable diseases ,  application of sanitary measures ,  and monitoring of environmental hazards .
the study of the mechanisms and biological effects of ionizing radiation ,  including repair processes .
the branch of medical science dealing with the medical use of x - rays or other penetrating radiation .
a medical specialty that deals with diagnosis and treatment of diseases and disorders of the connective tissues .
comprises the scientific study of the human aspects of the world .
the application of a systematic ,  disciplined ,  quantifiable approach to the development ,  operation ,  and maintenance of computer software .
a branch of applied mathematics concerned with the collection and interpretation of quantitative data and the use of probability theory to estimate population parameters .
the branch of medical science that treats disease or injury by operative procedures .
surgical procedures for treating diseases and disorders of the oral cavity .
the branch of physics concerned with the conversion of different forms of energy .
toxicology is the branch of pharmacology that deals with the nature and effects and treatments of poisons .
the medical specialty concerned with the study ,  diagnosis ,  and treatment of diseases of the genitourinary tract .
the branch of biology dealing with the study of animals .
the use of data processing systems to analyze ,  enhance ,  interpret or display digital images .
a plan of action adopted by an individual or social group .
the study of tumors encompassing the physical ,  chemical ,  and biologic properties .
a branch of genetics concerned with the mechanisms and processes of heredity in microorganisms .
bioinformatics derives knowledge from computer analysis of biological data .
the study of the internal workings of cells at the microscopic and molecular level .
the study of the immune system and its reaction to pathogens ,  as well as its malfunctions  ( autoimmune diseases ,  allergies ,  rejection of organ transplants )  .
bioengineering integrates physical ,  chemical ,  or mathematical sciences and engineering principles for treatment and for the study of biology ,  medicine ,  behavior ,  or health .
the branch of neurobiology concerned with the changes that take place in the nervous system between fertilization and maturity .
the science of simulating the motions of a system of particles .
the discipline concerned with the three - dimensional configuration of biological molecules and the influence of structure on function .
the medical science ,  and specialty practice ,  concerned with all aspects of disease ,  but with special reference to the essential nature ,  causes ,  and development of abnormal conditions ,  as well as the structural and functional changes that result from the disease processes .
interdisciplinary studies involving biology ,  anthropology ,  nutrition ,  and medicine with a focus on humans .
computational chemistry is the branch of theoretical chemistry whose major goals are to create efficient computer programs that calculate the properties of molecules  ( such as total energy ,  dipole moment ,  vibrational frequencies )  and to apply these programs to concrete chemical objects .
a multidisciplinary field that strives to comprehend the interactions of cellular components ,  molecular components and engineered materials at the nanoscale  ( i .e . ,  less than 100 nanometers )  .
the study of genetic traits in animals .
the branch of biochemistry dealing with the chemical nature and biological activity of enzymes .
the medical field that deals with immune diseases ,  including autoimmune diseases ,  allergies ,  rejection of organ transplants and immune deficiency .
database management involves the design and maintenance of electronic data storage systems to facilitate and optimize the categorization ,  selection ,  and retrieval of information .
the study of the psychological and behavioral changes that occur in an organism between birth and old age .
the metabolism of microbial life forms .
the study of microorganisms with an emphasis on their role in the human disease process .
the study of synthesis and application of polymers .
the sciences concerned with health promotion and maintenance .
the application of engineering and mathematical principles to electrical problems
its fundamental principle is that any physical system can be decomposed into a collection of simple independent local elements each of which interacts only with its immediate neighbors .
the global analysis of cellular proteins .
toxicogenomics is a new scientific field that elucidates how the entire genome is involved in biological responses of organisms exposed to environmental toxicants / stressors .
a specialized branch of chemistry dealing with the making of compounds ,  generally from the building blocks to the larger or complex molecules .
a series of chemical modifications of a drug compound by enzymatic activity that make the substrate  ( drug )  more water soluble to allow its clearance from the body .
the field of study concerned with the rational investigation of questions about existence and knowledge and ethics .
the aggregate of past events ;  the continuum of events occurring in succession leading from the past to the present ;  a record or narrative description of past events .
the study of comprehensive sets of genes via high throughput methods .
the branch of medicine dealing with the heart and its diseases .
the branch of medicine that involves the laboratory growth of functional tissues and organs and their use to regenerate or replace tissues and organs in the body that are damaged by diseases or cannot be healed .
a subject domain utilized for the submission of information encompassing and representing data ,  vocabulary or records related to the brain and nervous system .
an planned process that creates images ,  diagrams or animations from the input data .
cognitive neuroscience is the field of study focusing on the neural substrates of mental processes .
cultural anthropology is a branch of anthropology focused on the study of cultural variation among humans .
classical archaeology is the archaeological investigation of the mediterranean civilizations of ancient greece and ancient rome .
art is the expression or application of creative skill and imagination ,  typically in a visual form such as painting ,  drawing ,  or sculpture ,  producing works to be appreciated primarily for their beauty or emotional power .
automation is the action or process of introducing automatic equipment or devices into a manufacturing or other process or facility  [ oed ] 
criminal law is the branch of law concerned with defining crimes and with prosecuting and punishing offenders ;  the body of law relating to crime .
criminology is the study of crime and criminals ;  this as an academic discipline .
geology is the study or science of the earth ,  its history ,  and its life as recorded in the rocks ;  includes the study of geologic features of an area ,  such as the geometry of rock formations ,  weathering and erosion ,  and sedimentation .
humanities is the branch of learning concerned with human culture ;  the academic subjects collectively comprising this branch of learning ,  as history ,  literature ,  ancient and modern languages ,  law ,  philosophy ,  art ,  and music .
jurisprudence is the science which treats of human laws  ( written or unwritten )  in general ;  the philosophy of law .
medicine is the science or practice of the diagnosis ,  treatment ,  and prevention of disease  [ adapted from oed ,  al 5 .6 .2019 ] 
metallurgy is the domain of materials engineering that is concerned with the physical and chemical behavior of metallic elements ,  their inter - metallic compounds ,  and their mixtures ,  called alloys .
oceanography is the branch of science concerned with the physical and biological properties and phenomena of the ocean .
musculoskeletal medicine is the diagnosis and treatment of problems arising from the musculoskeletal system .
paleontology is the branch of science that deals with extinct and fossil humans ,  animals ,  and plants ,  or more generally with evidence of organic life during the geological past .
pharmacy is the medical area concerned with the preparation and dispensing of medicinal drugs .
natural science is the branch of knowledge that deals with the natural or physical world ,  in contrast to the social sciences and human sciences .
population dynamics is the study of how and why populations change in size and structure over time .
primary health care is a whole - of - society approach to health and well - being centred on the needs and preferences of individuals ,  families and communities .
medical psychology is the application of clinical psychology to medicine - specific issues .
social medicine is a branch of science concerned with social and economic aspects of health ,  disease ,  and medical care  [ adapted from oed ,  al 1 .5 .2019 ] 
global health is field of study concerned with the health of populations in a global context ;  this includes worldwide health improvement  ( including mental health )  ,  reduction of disparities ,  and protection against global threats that disregard national borders .
nonlinear dynamics is the branch of physics that studies systems governed by equations more complex than the linear ,  ax + b form .
ecosystem science is the study of inter - relationships among the living organisms ,  physical features ,  bio - chemical processes ,  natural phenomena ,  and human activities in ecological communities .
radiation oncology is the study of the effects of ionizing radiation for treatment of tumors .
natural history is a domain of inquiry involving organisms including animals ,  fungi and plants in their environment ;  leaning more towards observational than experimental methods of study .
theology is the study or science which is concerned with god ,  his nature and attributes ,  and his relations with man and the universe .
ancient history is the study of the history of past events from the beginning of writing and recorded human history and extending as far as the post - classical history .
medieval history is the study of the historical period also known as the middle ages .
infectious disease medicine is a branch of internal medicine concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases .
meteorology is the branch of science that deals with atmospheric phenomena and processes ,  especially with a view to forecasting the weather .
earth science is the science that deals with the earth or any part thereof ;  includes the disciplines of geology ,  geography ,  oceanography and meteorology ,  among others .
data mining is the process of discovering patterns in large data sets involving methods at the intersection of machine learning ,  statistics ,  and database systems .
drug repositioning is the deliberate and methodical practice of finding new applications for existing drugs .
synthetic biology is a field of biological research combining engineering in the formulation ,  design ,  and building  ( synthesis )  of novel biological structures ,  functions ,  and systems .
reproductive health is a research area that addresses the reproductive processes ,  functions and system at all stages of life .
transfusion medicine is the branch of medicine that is concerned with transfusion of blood and blood components .
an anatomical entity that is or was part of a plant .
humanities and social sciences is a broad multi - disciplinary research area incorporating both the humanities and the social sciences .
ancient cultures is the study of the pattern of learned beliefs ,  values ,  and behavior that are shared within a group in the context of ancient civilisations .
prehistory is the branch of knowledge that deals with events or conditions before written or recorded history .
classical philology is the branch of knowledge that deals with the historical ,  linguistic ,  interpretative ,  and critical aspects of literature from the classical period ,  generally considered to be the ancient greek and ancient roman civilizations .
egyptology is the study of egyptian antiquities ,  of the ancient egyptian language and history .
early modern history is the study of the period of modern history that follows the late middle ages of the post - classical era .
modern history is the study of the historical period after post - classical history .
history of science is the study of the development of science and scientific knowledge ,  including both the natural and social sciences .
fine arts is a subject area covering the creative arts ,  including the visual arts ,  poetry ,  music ,  rhetoric ,  etc . ,  whose products are intended to be appreciated primarily or solely for their aesthetic ,  imaginative ,  or intellectual content .
art history is the study of objects of art in their historical development and stylistic contexts ;  that is genre ,  design ,  format ,  and style .
musicology is the branch of knowledge that deals with music as a subject of study rather than as a skill or performing art ;  academic research in or scholarly study of music .
media studies is a discipline and field of study that deals with the content ,  history ,  and effects of various media ;  in particular ,  the mass media .
applied linguistics is the branch of linguistics concerned with practical applications of language studies ,  such as language teaching ,  translation ,  and speech therapy .
historical linguistics is the branch of linguistics concerned with the history and development of languages .
literary studies is the study ,  evaluation ,  and interpretation of literature .
medieval german literature is a field of study concerned with literature written in germany ,  starting with the carolingian dynasty .
german literature comprises the written works of the german - speaking peoples of central europe .
european literature is the literature written in the context of western culture in the languages of europe ,  including the ones belonging to the indo - european language family as well as several geographically or historically related languages such as basque and hungarian .
comparative literature is the study of literature across cultural and national frontiers ,  time periods ,  languages and genres ,  even across the boundaries between literature and the other arts .
asian studies is the term used usually in north america and australia for what in europe is known as oriental studies .
african studies is the study of africa ,  especially the continent's cultures and societies  ( as opposed to its geology ,  geography ,  zoology ,  etc . )  .
islamic studies refers to the study of islam .
religious studies is an academic field devoted to research into religious beliefs ,  behaviors ,  and institutions .
protestant theology is the study of the christian denomination of protestantism .
roman catholic theology is the understanding of roman catholic doctrine or teachings ,  and results from the studies of theologians .
history of philosophy is a research area concerned with the various periods ,  individuals and / or schools of philosophy .
theoretical philosophy is a discipline dealing with questions concerning the nature and scope of human knowledge ,  the relations between language ,  thought and reality ,  the structures of correct reasoning ,  and the fundamental categories of reality .
practical philosophy is the study of the bases of philosophy  ( metaphysics ,  knowledge theory ,  logic )  for "practical thinking" ,  with the emphasis on values ,  attitudes to life and norms of behaviour .
social and behavioral science is a broad area of study that applies to a unique range of disciplines  -  -  anthropology ,  sociology ,  and psychology ,  among them  -  -  that are primarily concerned with the analysis of human behavior .
education science is the study of educational policy and practice and deals with the methods and strategies of teaching .
research on teaching ,  learning and training is a field of education science focusing on the study of teaching ,  learning and training methods .
professional socialization is the process of forming associations with others in a chosen profession ;  specifically ,  the process by which a person learns to function within a particular profession by internalizing its values and norms .
biological psychology is the application of the principles of biology to the study of mental processes and behaviour .
social psychology is the study of social interactions ,  including their origins and effects on individuals and groups .
differential psychology is the study of the ways in which individuals differ in their behavior and the processes that underlie it .
sociological theory is a field of social sciences focusing on the introduction of new substantive theories ,  history of theory ,  metatheory ,  formal theory construction ,  and synthetic contributions .
empirical social research uses empirical data on social formations and their members as a basis for explaining social phenomena .
communication science is the study of ways in which human beings communicate ,  including speech ,  gesture ,  telecommunication systems ,  publishing and broadcasting media ,  etc .
political science is the study of the state and systems of government ;  the analysis of political activity and behaviour .
economic theory is the field of study concerned with those areas of economics based on rigorous theoretical reasoning and on topics in mathematics that are supported by the analysis of economic problems .
business administration is the field of study concerning the process of running a business .
economic and social history is the study of the way societies change in their economic activities and social organisation .
philosophy of law is a branch of philosophy that examines the nature of law and law's relationship to other systems of norms ,  especially ethics and political philosophy .
private law is the branch of law concerning relations and dealings between private individuals .
public law is the law governing relations between individuals and the state ,  or the conduct of the state .
inter - organismic interactions of plants is a research area concerned with all biochemical ,  physiological and molecular aspects of plant - plant interactions .
phytochemistry is the chemistry of plants and plant products .
plant cell biology is a research area focusing on the how the processes underlying plant cell function and development are regulated .
behavioural biology is an interdisciplinary degree and field of science that examines the bidirectional interactions between behaviour and biology .
molecular microbiology is the branch of microbiology devoted to the study of the molecular basis of the physiological processes that occur in microorganisms .
applied microbiology is a scientific discipline that deals with the application of microorganisms and the knowledge about them .
molecular infection biology is the branch of molecular biology which applies to infectious agents .
medical biometry is the branch of science that deals with the statistical analysis of numerical data relating to humans ,  especially concerning genetic relationships or medical conditions .
pathobiochemistry is an intersiciplinary research area related to both biochemistry and pathology .
cariothoracic surgery is the field of medicine involved in surgical treatment of organs inside the thorax  ( the chest ) —generally treatment of conditions of the heart  ( heart disease )  and lungs  ( lung disease )  .
medical physics is the application of physics to healthcare ;  using physics for patient imaging ,  measurement and treatment .
molecular neuroscience is a branch of neuroscience that examines the biology of the nervous system with molecular biology ,  molecular genetics ,  protein chemistry and related methodologies .
cellular neuroscience is the study of neurons at the cellular level .
systemic neuroscience is a subdiscipline of neuroscience and systems biology that studies the structure and function of neural circuits and systems .
comparative neurobiology is the study of how nervous systems work by comparing the neurobiology of multiple species .
molecular neurology is the study of the molecular basis of neurology and neurological disorders .
biological psychiatry is the branch of psychiatry concerned with the biological basis for mental disorders ,  typically using physical methods or medication  ( as opposed to psychotherapy )  as treatment .
phytomedicine is a plant - based traditional medicinal practice that uses various plant materials in preventive and therapeutic processes  ( wallis ,  2005 ;  ali ,  2008 )  .
clinical veterinary medicine deals with the observation ,  diagnosis and treatment of illness ,  disease or damage through direct interaction with non - human patients .
molecular chemistry is a subject concerned with the synthesis of molecules with new biological or physical properties to address scientific or societal challenges .
solid - state chemistry ,  also sometimes referred as materials chemistry ,  is the study of the synthesis ,  structure ,  and properties of solid phase materials ,  particularly ,  but not necessarily exclusively of ,  non - molecular solids .
molecular physical chemistry is a field of physical chemistry concerned primarily with thermodynamics and reaction dynamics and other molecular properties that allow the behaviour of larger groups of molecules to be predicted .
theoretical chemistry is the examination of the structural and dynamic properties of molecules and molecular materials using the tools of quantum chemistry ,  equilibrium and nonequilibrium statistical mechanics and dynamics .
biomimetic chemistry deals with chemical systems that can simulate biological phenomena ,  particularly catalysis and specificity .
food chemistry is the study of chemical processes and interactions of all biological and non - biological components of foods .
polymer research is a subfield of materials science concerned with polymers ,  primarily synthetic polymers such as plastics and elastomers .
polymer physics is the field of physics that studies polymers ,  their fluctuations ,  mechanical properties ,  as well as the kinetics of reactions involving degradation and polymerisation of polymers and monomers respectively .
condensed matter physics is the field of physics that deals with the macroscopic and microscopic physical properties of matter .
experimental condensed matter physics involves the use of experimental probes to try to discover new properties of materials .
theoretical condensed matter physics involves the use of theoretical models to understand properties of states of matter .
atomic ,  molecular ,  optical and plasma physics  ( amop )  is the study of matter - matter and light - matter interactions ;  at the scale of one or a few atoms and energy scales around several electron volts  [ adapted from wikipedia ,  https: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / atomic , _molecular , _and_optical_physics ,  al 1 .4 .2019 ] 
particles ,  nuclei and fields are interlinked areas of study within physics .
soft matter physics sits at the interface between chemistry ,  physics and biology ,  and includes investigation of the structure ,  self - assembly ,  kinetics and properties of liquids ,  colloids ,  particles ,  formulations ,  gels ,  foams ,  sprays ,  soft solids and interfaces .
astronomy and astrophysics are the study of objects and phenomena that are found beyond our solar system .
geoinformatics is the science of developing and using information science infrastructure to address the problems of geography ,  cartography ,  geosciences and related branches of science and engineering .
human geography is the branch of geography that deals with the activities of mankind as they affect or are influenced by the landscape ;   ( also )  the geographical features of a place or region as they relate to or are affected by humans or human activity .
water research is the study of the science and technology of water quality and its management worldwide .
industrial engineering is a branch of engineering which deals with the optimization of complex processes ,  systems ,  or organizations ,  to create engineering processes and systems that improve quality and productivity .
production technology is a combination of manufacturing technology ,  engineering sciences with management science .
metal - cutting manufacturing engineering is the research area concerned with the manufacturing processes in which parts are shaped by removal of unwanted material .
primary shaping technology concerns the primary processes within production technology ,  which convert raw material or scrap to a basic primary shaped and sized product .
plastics engineering encompasses the processing ,  design ,  development ,  and manufacture of plastics products .
thermal engineering is a study of energy transport particularly in nanoscale structure to obtain knowledge and understanding of the scientific effects on physical world that can engineering discoveries in industrial energy applications .
process engineering is the understanding and application of the fundamental principles and laws of nature that allow us to transform raw material and energy into products that are useful to society ,  at an industrial level .
technical chemistry is a branch of chemistry dealing with chemical processes in an industrial setting .
mechanical process engineering is a specialization of process engineering that deals with product development ,  design ,  and manufacturing processes .
biological process engineering is a specialization of chemical engineering and process engineering that deals with the design and development of equipment and processes for the manufacturing of products such as agriculture ,  food ,  feed ,  pharmaceuticals ,  nutraceuticals ,  chemicals ,  and polymers and paper .
thermal technology is the technology of producing ,  storing ,  controlling ,  transmitting ,  and getting work from heat energy .
energy engineering covers the broad field of engineering dealing with energy efficiency ,  energy services ,  facility management ,  plant engineering ,  environmental compliance and alternative energy technologies ,  focussing on design ,  operation ,  control and optimization of energy use .
fluid mechanics the branch of mechanics dealing with the flow of liquids and gases and the way they respond to and exert forces .
materials engineering is a research area concerned with the production of specifications for materials as well as their design ,  processing and application .
thermomechanical processing is a metallurgical process that combines mechanical or plastic deformation process like compression or forging ,  rolling etc .
sintering is the process of compacting and forming a solid mass of material by heat or pressure without melting it to the point of liquefaction .
a composite material  ( also called a composition material or shortened to composite ,  which is the common name )  is a material made from two or more constituent materials with significantly different physical or chemical properties that ,  when combined ,  produce a material with characteristics different from the individual components .
mechanical behaviour of construction is the study of the mechnical behaviour of materials used in construction .
coating and surface technology covers the technology surround any mixture of film - forming materials ,  including pigments ,  solvents ,  and other additives .
materials science is the scientific study of the properties and applications of materials of construction or manufacture  ( such as ceramics ,  metals ,  polymers ,  and composites .
functional materials research is concerned with materials which possess particular native properties and functions of their own ,  such as ferroelectricity ,  piezoelectricity ,  magnetism or energy storage functions .
microstructural mechanical properties of materials is a field of research concerned with the properties and structure of a material's surface as revealed by a microscope above 25× magnification .
materials structuring and functionalisation is a type of materials science where surfaces of materials attain desired functionalities through the use of surface structuring .
systems engineering is concerned with the investigation of complex ,  man - made systems in relation to the apparatus that is or might be involved in them .
robotics is an interdisciplinary branch of engineering and science that deals with the design ,  construction ,  operation ,  and use of robots ,  as well as computer systems for their control ,  sensory feedback ,  and information processing .
measurement systems describes the field of study concerned with collections of units of measurement and rules relating them to each other .
microsystems is the name commonly used in europe to describe the same technology which goes under the name mems  ( micro electro mechanical systems )  in the us .
human - machine systems engineering is a type of systems engineering which focuses on how the functions of a human operator  ( or a group of operators )  and a machine are integrated .
component engineering is an electrical engineering discipline primarily used to ensure the availability of suitable components required to manufacture a larger product .
telecommunications engineering is a subfield of electrical engineering that encompasses modes of communication such as satellites ,  radio ,  internet and broadband technologies and wireless telephone services .
power engineering is a subfield of electrical engineering that deals with the generation ,  transmission ,  distribution and utilization of electric power ,  and the electrical apparatus connected to such systems .
theoretical computer science is a subset of general computer science and mathematics that focuses on more mathematical topics of computing and includes the theory of computation .
computer architecture is a field concerned with the set of rules and methods that describe the functionality ,  organization ,  and implementation of computer systems .
construction engineering  -  a professional discipline that deals with the designing ,  planning ,  construction ,  and management of infrastructures such as roads ,  tunnels ,  bridges ,  airports ,  railroads ,  facilities ,  buildings ,  dams ,  utilities and other projects .
construction history is the history of how not only buildings are constructed ,  but also the construction of civil engineering and infrastructure .
transport planning is the process of defining future policies ,  goals ,  investments ,  and designs to prepare for future needs to move people and goods to destinations .
building engineering physics investigates the areas of natural science that relate to the energy performance of buildings and their indoor and outdoor environments .
structural engineering is a sub - discipline of civil engineering in which structural engineers are trained to understand ,  predict ,  and calculate the stability ,  strength and rigidity of built structures for buildings and nonbuilding structures ,  to develop designs and integrate their design with that of other designers ,  and to supervise construction of projects on site .
applied mechanics is the practical application of mechanics and bridges the gap between physical theory and its application to technology .
geotechnics is the application of science and technology to the management and utilization of the earth's physical resources .
maritime engineering is a broad - based research area focusing on the study and investigation of engineering systems operating in the maritime environment .
aerospace engineering is the field of engineering concerned with the development of aircraft and spacecraft .
building informatics is an application of advanced information and knowledge handling techniques to construction management .
landscape planning is concerned with developing landscaping amongst competing land uses while protecting natural processes and significant cultural and natural resources .
sustainable building technology is the application of processes that are environmentally responsible and resource - efficient throughout a building's life - cycle: from planning to design ,  construction ,  operation ,  maintenance ,  renovation ,  and demolition .
building design refers to the broadly based architectural ,  engineering and technical applications to the design of buildings .
materials informatics employs techniques ,  tools ,  and theories drawn from the emerging fields of data science ,  internet ,  computer science and engineering ,  and digital technologies to the materials science and engineering to accelerate materials ,  products and manufacturing innovations .
neurogenetics studies the role of genetics in the development and function of the nervous system .
computational neuroscience is the field of study in which mathematical tools and theories are used to investigate brain function .
mathematical psychology is an approach to psychological research that is based on mathematical modeling of perceptual ,  thought ,  cognitive and motor processes ,  and on the establishment of law - like rules that relate quantifiable stimulus characteristics with quantifiable behavior .
industrial and organisational psychology is the science of human behaviour relating to work and applies psychological theories and principles to organizations and individuals in their places of work as well as the individual's work - life more generally .
surface science is the study of physical and chemical phenomena that occur at the interface of two phases ,  including solid–liquid interfaces ,  solid–gas interfaces ,  solid–vacuum interfaces ,  and liquid–gas interfaces .
area studies is a type of multidisciplinary social research focusing on specific geographic regions or culturally defined areas .
american studies is an interdisciplinary field of scholarship that examines american history ,  society ,  and culture .
oceania studies is the study of the pacific region across academic disciplines .
arabian studies is the study of the arabian region including the gulf ,  the red sea and arabia .
jewish studies is an academic discipline centered on the study of jews and judaism .
diabetology is a branch of medicine dealing with the study and treatment of diabetes mellitus .
theatre studies  ( sometimes referred to as theatrology or dramatics )  is the study of theatrical performance in relation to its literary ,  physical ,  psycho - biological ,  sociological ,  and historical contexts .
data integration involves combining data residing in different sources and providing users with a unified view of them .
food process engineering is a field of study focusing on the applications of engineering principles and concepts to food and food processes .
statistical physics is a branch of physics that uses probability theory and statistics to solve physical problems that usually involve systems composed of a large number of units .
angiology is the medical specialty which studies the diseases of the circulatory system and of the lymphatic system ,  i .e . ,  arteries ,  veins and lymphatic vessels ,  and its diseases .
legal history is the study of how law has evolved and why it changed .
american literature is literature written or produced in the united states of america and its preceding colonies  [ wikipedia https: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / american_literature ,  al 21 .05 .2019 ] 
cultural studies is a field of theoretically ,  politically ,  and empirically engaged cultural analysis that concentrates upon the political dynamics of contemporary culture ,  its historical foundations ,  defining traits ,  conflicts ,  and contingencies .
ancient near eastern studies is the field of academic study of the ancient near east .
orthopedic surgery is the branch of surgery broadly concerned with the skeletal system  ( bones and joints )  .
community care research is concerned with services that are intended to help people who need care and support to live with dignity and independence in the community and to avoid social isolation .
epigenetics is the study of the chemical modification of specific genes or gene - associated proteins of an organism .
the discovery ,  development and approval of medicines .
safety science is the study of the science and technology of human and industrial safety .
endocrinology is a branch of medicine concerned with the structure ,  function ,  and disorders of the endocrine glands .
medical virology is the study of the diagnosis and management of infectious diseases from a clinical and laboratory perspective ,  with particular interest in infection control ,  medical microbiology and public health .
