biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
the profurcal muscle that arises from the mesofurcal bridge and inserts proximally of the profurca .
the carina that is located distally on the scape ,  that envelopes the proximal pedicel .
material anatomical entity which has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of an anatomical surface .
non - material anatomical entity of zero dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical line or surface .
non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions ,  that is demarcated by anatomical lines or points on the external or internal surfaces of anatomical structures .
anatomical group that is has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
anatomical structure that is a direct part of the cell .
the tagma that is located posterior to the thorax .
the segment that is located posterior to the head and is does not bear legs .
the abdominal segment that is located between the metathorax and abdominal segment 2 .
the abdominal segment that is located posterior to abdominal segment 9 .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
the abdominal segment that has a sternum and is located posterior to the first abdominal spiracle .
multi - tissue structure that is not part of a compound organ .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 2 and abdominal segment 4 .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 3 and abdominal segment 5 .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 4 and abdominal segment 6 .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 5 and abdominal segment 7 .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
multi - cellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
multi - cellular organism that does not produce gametes .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 6 and abdominal segment 8 .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 7 and abdominal segment 9 .
the abdominal segment that is located between abdominal segment 8 and abdominal segment 10 .
the abdominal sternum that is located on abdominal segment 2 .
the abdominal sternum that is located on abdominal segment 3 .
the abdominal sternum that is located on abdominal segment 4 .
the abdominal sternum that is located on abdominal segment 5 .
the abdominal sternum that is located on abdominal segment 6 .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
the anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
anatomical structure that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
the abdominal sternum that is located on abdominal segment 7 .
hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of one sex ,  and then later of the other sex .
hermaphroditic organism that produces both male and female gametes at the same time .
the abdominal sternum that is located on abdominal segment 9 .
multi - cellular organism that has male and female sexes .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of the male sex ,  and then later of the female sex .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of the female sex ,  and then later of the male sex .
the tergum that is located on abdominal segment 1 .
the abdominal tergum that is located in the abdominal segment 10 .
the tergum that is located on abdominal segment 2 .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
the tergum that is located on the abdominal segment 3 .
the tergum that is located on abdominal segment 4 .
the tergum that is located on abdominal segment 5 .
the tergum that is located on abdominal segment 6 .
the tergum that is located on abdominal segment 7 .
the tergum that is located on abdominal segment 8 .
anatomical space that is part of a cell .
portion of organism substance located within a cell .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium that consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium that consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
compound organ that does not contain macroscopic anatomical spaces .
the tergite that is connected to s9 via muscles  .
the wing vein that is delimited by its intersection with two other abscissae .
cell which has as its part a cytoskeleton that allows for tight cell to cell contact and which has apical - basal cell polarity .
the gland that empties into one of the reproductive ducts .
the area that is located on the epicnemial carina posterior to the site of origin of the omaulus .
the impression that extends from the mandibular acetabulum to the preapical tooth .
the area that is concave and accommodates the base of a segment .
the apodeme that is located anterodorsally on the mesopleuron and corresponds to the site of origin of the third mesopleuro - mesonotal muscle .
the line that delimits posteroventrally the acropleuron .
the area that is located anteriorly of the antecosta of a sternum .
the abdomen that is part of the adult .
the tagma that is part of the adult .
the thorax that is part of the adult .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of sclerites that are adjacent to the distal end of the ejaculatory duct .
the notum that is connected to the wings .
the wing vein that articulates proximally with the third axillary sclerite and is located just posteriorly of the claval fold .
the area of the episternum delimited by the paracoxal suture ,  basalar cleft and anapleural cleft .
the area that is located proximally on the first flagellomere and is less sclerotized and narrower than the distal part of the first flagellomere .
the carina that is transverse and extends across the lateral wall of the terebra .
the area that is distal and limited proximally by a sulcus .
the ridge that extends along the anterior margin of the tergum and sternum and corresponds to the site of attachment of the median longitudinal intersegmental muscles .
the sulcus that corresponds to the antecosta .
the fossa that is located posteroventrally on the preaxilla immediately anterior to the transscutal line and articulates with the mesal condyle of the first axillary sclerite of the fore wing .
the appendage that is composed of ringlike sclerites and the anatomical structures encircled by these sclerites and that is articulated with the cranium .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the probasitarsus and calcar .
the rim that surrounds the antennal foramen .
the antennomere that is an appendage segment .
the area that is delimited by two transverse edges extending just ventrally and dorsally of the antennal foramina .
the sulcus that surrounds the antennal rim .
the anatomical structure that is delimited by the proximal and distal margins of the antennal sclerite .
the mandibular muscle that arises posterolaterally from the cranium and inserts on the tendon attached posteroproximal part of the mandible .
the area that is located distally on the lateral mesofurcal arm and corresponds to the site of origin of the lateral anterior mesopleuro - mesofurcal muscle .
the area that is projected ,  located anteriorly on the preaxilla and fits into the dorsal incision of the pronotum .
the sclerite of the anterior glossal plate that is lateral to the median conjunctiva of the anterior glossal plate .
the labral muscle that is unpaired ,  arises proximally from the upper face and inserts on the median proximal margin of the labrum .
the ridge that delimits the site of origin of the anterior mesopleuro - mesofurcal muscle .
the mesofurco - mesolaterophragmal muscle that originates from the mesofurca and inserts anteriorly on the mesolaterophragma .
the area that is limited posteriorly by the anterior mesopleural sulcus .
the sulcus that extends between the lateral end of the acetabular carina and the dorsal margin of the mesopleuron anterior to the mesopleural wing articulation .
the mesofurcal muscle that originates from the mesopleuron and inserts distally on the mesofurca .
the fossa that is located posterolaterally on the preaxilla and articulates with the anterior condyle of the first axillary sclerite of the fore wing .
the apodeme that is located medially on the mesofurcal bridge .
the process that is located medially on the anterior rim of pronotum .
the projection that is median and is located on the anterior margin of the basisternum .
the ridge that extends along the median line of the dorsal profurcal lamella and that receives the site of attachment of the profurco - laterocervical muscle .
the area that extends along the anterior margin of the pronotum and is delimited posteriorly by the transverse pronotal suclus .
the tentorial pit that corresponds to the anterior end of the tentorium and partially delimits the clypeus .
the notch that is located anteriorly on the dorsal margin of the mesopleuron and accommodates the mesobasalare .
the signum that is submedian and located on the anterior margin of the mesoscutum and corresponds to the site of origin of the longitudinal flight muscle .
the depression that is located anterolaterally on the abdominal tergum 2 and accommodates the propodeal tooth .
the corner that is located anterolaterally on the mesoscutum and is adjacent to the dorsal pronotal corner .
the ridge that extends parallel to the anterior  ( ventral )  margin of the pronotum and delimits dorsally the site of origin of the pronoto - propleural arm muscles .
the inflection that is located on the anteroventral margin of the pronotum .
the area that is median ,  concave ,  triangular ,  is located on the posterior margin of the pronotum and is delimited by a carina anteriorly .
the apodeme that is located medially on the proximoventral margin of the gonostipes and is the site of origin of the ventral gonostyle / volsella complex - penisvalval muscles .
the area that extends distally of the apex of the velum or comb of the spur .
the depression accommodates the sensilla that is located ventrally on the  apical flagellomere .
the flagellomere that is located distally on the flagellum .
the seta that is located close to the distoventral margin of the gonostyle / volsella complex just laterally of the gonostyle / volsella complex - gonossiculus articulation .
the process that located distomedially on the labrum .
the row of spurs that is located on the internal margin of the calcar distally of the velum .
the area that is the distal part of the gonossiculus and is connected to the parossiculus via membranous conjunctiva .
the process that is internal .
the apodeme that is tubercle - like or spine - like .
the anatomical structure that is encircled by the evagination of the integument and whose integumental components are attached to the body via muscles .
the anatomical structure of the cuticle that is delimited by material or immaterial anatomical entities .
the wing cell of the fore wing that is minute ,  round and is delimited by the radio - medial cross veins .
the lobe that is connected proximodorsally with the manubrium and proximoventrally with the planta .
the anatomical line that extends on the border between two articulating sclerites .
the projection that bears the articular surface .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of two adjacent articular surfaces .
the impression that is on the first valvifer - first valvula complex accommodates the rhachis .
the sclerite that is located between the unguitractor and the bases of claws .
the area that is located posterior to the transscutal articulation and anterior to the scutoscutellar suture .
the line that separates the dorsal and lateral axillar surfaces .
the area that is heavily sclerotized and located proximally on the posterior wing margin .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the axillary sclerites .
the sclerite that is located on the axillary region and articulates with one of the thoracic wing processes .
the area that is located laterally on the mesoscutellum and is limited anteriorly by the scutoscutellar suture and medially by the axillular line .
the axillular line that is a carina .
the row of setae that extends along the median margin of axillula .
the area that is oblong and differs from surrounding areas in coloration ,  surface sculpture and setae .
the process that is linear and wider proximally than distally .
the area that connects the parosicculi .
the row of impressions that extends along the anterior margin of an abdominal tergum or a sternum .
the anatomical cluster that is part of the gonostyle / volsella complex and is composed of the sclerites that are proximal to the harpe .
the carina that extends along the proximal margin of the third abdominal tergite .
the wing vein that is basally located on the fore wing and connects or nearly connects the submarginal vein and the medial plus cubital veins .
the sclerite that is located on the dorsal margin of the pectus of pterothoracic segment anteriorly of the pleural wing articulation .
the ridge that is located proximally and submarginally in the coxa .
the sulcus that corresponds to the basicosta .
the area that is located on the coxa proximal to the basicostal suture .
the area that is located anteriorly of the site of origin of the furca .
the notch that is located proximally on the median surface of the probasitarsus .
the tarsomere that is the proximal most annulus of the tarsus ,  connected proximally with the tibia and distally with the second tarsomere via membranous conjunctivae .
the area that is the proximal part of the gonossiculus and corresponds to the site of insertion of median parossiculo - gonossiculal muscle .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of small sclerites and is located proximally on the first valvulae .
the area that is located distally on the mandible .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the whole organism but which excludes the antennae ,  legs and wings .
the segment that is the part of the body .
the anatomical region of the wing vein that is less melanized and more flexible than surrounding anatomical wing vein regions and corresponds to the intersection of the wing vein with a flexion line .
the anatomical space that is located anteriorly in the lateral oviduct and which receives the ovariole pedicels .
the cardo that is a sclerite .
the process that is elongate and external .
the conjunctiva that is folded and located on the anterior margin of the metanotum and covered  ( at least partially )  with setae .
the setiferous patch that is one of a pair of patches located posteriorly of the anterior margin of abdominal tergum 9 .
the apodeme that is located posteriorly of and continuous with the cervical prominence and corresponds to the site of insertion of laterocervical muscles .
the articular process that is located on the anterior margin of the propleuron and bears the cranial condyle of the propleuron .
the area that is located medially on the pronotum and is delimited laterally by the epomial carina .
the row of stout spines that is located along the anterior edge of the protibia .
the seta that is located on a process .
the anatomical space that is delimited dorsally by the wall of the metascutellum ,  anteriorly and posteriorly by the bifurcated internal metanotal ridge .
the area that is located ventrally in between the eye and the oral foramen .
the anatomical space that is the anteriormost part of the alimentary canal and is delimited proximally by the proximomedian margin of the sitophore and distally by the functional mouth .
the ridge that extends along the margin of the compound eye and corresponds to the ocular suture .
the anatomical cluster composed of the apical flagellomeres that are differentiated by size from the basal flagellomeres .
the wing fold that is located on the fore wing ,  parallels the anal vein ,  and extends to the claval notch on the wing margin .
the wing region that is posterior to the claval furrow and anterior to the jugal fold .
the setiferous patch that is used to clean anatomical structures .
the rim that extends along the distal margin of the clypeus .
the process that is located medially on the clypeus .
the line that extends from the anterior tentorial pit to the cranial margin and separates the clypeus laterally from the pleurostoma .
the area that corresponds to the site of origin of the clypeo - epipharyngeal muscle .
the glandula mucosa that secretes an adhesive substance used to fasten the eggs to a support .
the row of setae that extends along the apical margin of the fore tibia inbetween the articulations of the basitarsus and the calcar .
the row that is located on the calcar and is composed of hairlike spines .
the compound organ that is composed of ommatidia .
the carina that is longitudinal and extends posteriorly on the lateral surface of the mandible from the mandibular condyle .
the impression that extends ventrally of the condylar carina of the mandible .
the articular surface that is convex and is inserted into the fossa of an adjacent sclerite .
the area of the cuticle that is weakly sclerotized ,  with thin exocuticle .
the anatomical cluster that is composed by the concave lateral  ( external ,  anterior )  area of the metatibia and two rows of setae extending along the lateral margins of the area .
the projection that is located at the intersection of two or more edges .
the suture that is located medially and is part of the epicranial suture .
the wing vein that is anterior to the subcosta and is connected to the humeral plate .
the membranous region of the forewing anterior to the submarginal vein ,  measured from the basal constriction that delimits the apex of the humeral plate of the wing to the point at which the submarginal vein touches the leading edge of the wing .
the wing membrane that is located between the costal vein and the pterostigma .
the leg segment that is connected to the body and to the trochanter via conjunctivae and muscles .
the foramen that is located lateroventrally of the pectus ,  in which the coxa is positioned .
the conjunctiva that connects the coxa to the pectus .
the condyle that is located on the cranium .
the muscle that arises from the cranium and inserts on the scape .
the head muscle that arises internally from the face and inserts on the pharyngeal plate .
the sclerite that is articulated with the cervical prominence ,  the scapes and the mandibles .
the longitudinal vein that is posterior to the marginal vein .
the sclerite that is connected via conjunctiva and attached via muscles to abdominal tergum 9 and the gonostyle / volsella complex .
the projection that is located apicolaterally on the parossiculus and is adjacent to the digitus .
the acellular anatomical structure that is the external layer of the integument  ( covers the entire body surface as well as lines ectodermal invaginations such as the stomodeum ,  proctodeum and tracheae )  and produced by the epidermal cells .
the area that is external ,  concave ,  point - like and does not correspond to an apodeme .
the joint that is composed of two sclerites connected with to articulations .
the apodeme that corresponds to the site of origin of the dilator muscle of the propodeal spiracle .
the sulcus that corresponds with the discrimenal lamella .
the ridge that is median ,  longitudinal and arises anteriorly from the base of the furca .
the gonostyle / volsellal complex - harpal muscle that arises from the distolateral margin of the gonostyle / volsellal complex and inserts on the lateral wall of the harpe .
the gonostyle / parossiculal muscle that arises distally of the lateral part of the gonostipes and inserts on the distal part of the parossiculus distally of the site of origin of the proximal gonostipo - parossiculal muscle .
the tarsal plantula that arises distally on the tarsomere .
the apodeme that is located distally on the parossiculus and is the site of insertion of the gonostyle / volsella complex - gonostyle muscle .
the dorsal gonostyle / volsella complex - penisvalval muscle that arises distodorsally from the gonostyle volsella complex and inserts on the proximal region of the penisvalva .
the ventral gonostyle / volsella complex - penisvalval muscle that arises from the proximoventral part of the gonostyle / volsella complex ,  inserts medially on the penisvalva and is oriented distodorsally .
the area that is located medially on the axilla and is delimited laterally by the axillar carina and posteromedially by scutoscutellar sulcus .
the notch that is located submedially on the dorsal margin of the pronotum and fits with the anterior extension of the preaxilla .
the profurcal muscle that originates from the lateral part of the lateral mesofurcal arm and inserts on the posterior surface of the posterior profurcal lamella .
the carina that extends along the dorsal margin of the mesometapleuron .
the inflection that extends along the dorsal margin of the mesopleuron anterior to the subalar pit and articulates with the second axillary sclerite .
the area that is more heavily sclerotised than surrounding areas ,  traverse the mesopostnotum ,  unites laterally with the dorsal mesopostnotal flange ,  continuous laterally with the laterophragma and dorsally  ( anteriorly )  with the pseudophragma and is located anterior to the ventral mesopostnotal flange .
the notch that is situated medially on the dorsal margin of the mesopostnotum .
the ridge that extends along the lateral metafurcal arm and corresponds to the site of origin of the metafurco - second abdominal sternal muscle .
the area that is delimited posterodorsally by the metapleural carina and anteroventrally by the metapleural sulcus .
the pharyngeal muscle that arises on the inner proximal surface of the upper face ,  laterally to the origin of the anterior fronto - labral muscle ,  but mesally to the posterior fronto - labral muscle .
the tentorio - labial muscle that arises from the cranium and inserts distally on the labium adjacent to the level of the salivary orifice .
the ridge that extends dorsally on the profurcal arm and corresponds to the site of origin of the dorsal and ventral profurco - postoccipital muscles .
the postoccipital muscle that arises from the dorsal part of the lateral area of the dorsal profurcal lamella and inserts on the postocciput .
the area that is delimited ventrally by the pronotal suprahumeral sulcus and corresponds to the site of origin of the pronoto - procoxal ,  pronoto - postoccipital ,  pronoto - laterocervical and the pronoto - propleural muscles .
the area that is posterolateral and part of the dorsal area of the metapectal - propodeal complex .
the inflection that extends along the dorsal margin of the pronotum and supports the anterior inflection of the mesoscutum .
the area that is located posterodorsally of the well - sclerotized lateral propleural area and usually differs from it in sculpture .
the ridge that is marginal or submarginal ,  extends along the dorsal margin of the propleuron and corresponds to the site of origin of the lateral propleuro - postoccipital muscle .
the inflection that extends along the dorsal margin of the propodeum and accommodates the metanotum .
the sclerite that is located dorsally between the penisvalvae .
the salivarial muscle that inserts proximodorsally on the salivary duct .
the apodeme that arises anterodorsally from the anterior tentorial arm and extends to the anterior wall of the cranium .
the apical tooth of mandible that is located closest to the clypeus .
the anatomical line that is located between the dorsum and the pleuron .
the cupulo - gonostyle / volsella complex muscle that arises from the dorsolateral part of the cupula ,  just laterally of the site of origin of the dorsomedian cupulo - gonostipal muscle ,  and inserts on the dorsolateral part of the gonostipes .
the cupulo - gonostyle / volsella complex muscle that inserts medially on the dorsal region of the gonostyle / volsella complex .
the pit that is located proximally on the abdominal tergum 2 between the dorsal and lateral petiolar carinae .
the area of the segment that is dorsal .
the cavitated compound organ that is canal - like ,  layered with epithelial cells and leads from an exocrine gland or organ .
the duct ( s )  that is ( are )  connect vasa deferentia with endophallus and is ( are )  ectodermal in origin .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the sclerites and muscles of the external male genitalia .
the margin that extends along the border of two areas that are oriented differently .
the flagellomere that is located proximally on the flagellum and lacks longitudinal sensilla .
the anatomical space that surrounds the plate - like structure in a multiporous plate sensillum .
the procuticle that is not tanned  ( sclerotised ,  proteins scarcely crosslinked )  and located between the schmidt's layer and the exocuticle .
the conjunctiva that connects the gonopore with the penisvalvae .
the carina that delimits posteriorly the epicnemium .
the cuticular invagination that is located at the lateral end of the epicnemial carina .
the scrobe that is located anteroventrally on the mesopectus and accommodates the procoxa .
the area that is located posteroventrally on the propleuron and is delimited anteriorly by the epicoxal sulcus .
the sulcus that is dorsal to the coxal foramen .
the suture that is y - shaped and located dorsally on the cranium .
the epithelium that is located in the integument and composed of epidermal cells .
the area that is located on the pleuron and is delimited anteriorly by the pleural sulcus .
the conjunctiva that extends between the distal margin of the labrum and the proximal boundary of the cibarium .
the lobe that is located distally on the epipharyngeal wall .
the flange that is located on abdominal tergum 10 ,  between the cerci .
the area that is located on the pleuron anteroventrally of the pleural sulcus .
the notch that is located on the ventral margin of the clypeus .
the ridge that corresponds to the epistomal sulcus .
the sulcus that extends along the epistomal line .
the carina that is vertical ,  crosses the pronotum and separates the lateral pronotal area from the median pronotal area .
the apodeme that is lateral ,  located medially on the penisvalva and corresponds to the sites of insertion of the lateral and distoventral gonostyle / volsella complex - penisvalval muscle and the parossiculo - penisvalval muscles .
the sclerite that is located on the thoracic sternum posteriorly of the spinasternum .
the area that is highly sculptured and surrounds the opening of a gland .
the procuticle that is tanned  ( sclerotised ,  proteins are highly crosslinked )  and located between the endocuticle and epicuticle .
the appendage that is connected to the body by the cupulo - s9 muscles .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the gonostipites and volsellae .
the labial muscle that arises from the prementum and inserts on the first sclerite of the labial palp .
the cuticle that is discarded after a molt .
the area that is located ventrally of the ventral margin of the antennal foramen ,  medially of the malar sulcus and the inner orbit and dorsally of the epistomal sulcus .
the area that is concave ,  narrow ,  often finely and densely pubescent and extends along the inner orbit .
the line that extends along the border of the eye and lower face .
the pit that overlaps with the facial apodeme .
the sulcus that arises medially from the ventral margin of the median ocellus and extends towards the intertorular carina .
the band that is transverse and composed of setae in apoidea .
the setiferous patch that is located sublaterally on an abdominal sternum .
the band that is composed of flattened setae and secretory pores and is located laterally on abdominal tergum 3 .
the genitalia that is part of the female organism .
the scrobe that is located on the mesopleuron into which the mesofemur fits when pressed against the mesosoma .
the leg segment that is distal to the trochanter and proximal to the tibia .
the sclerite that is located in the proximal end of the unpaired part of the ductus ejaculatorius .
the abdominal spiracle that is the anteriormost in the body .
the axillary sclerite that articulates with the mesonotum .
the sclerite that is located between the second axillary and the distal arm of the third axillary at the base of the mediocubital field .
the mesonotal muscle that arises ventrally from the mesopectus and inserts on the mesoscutum laterally of the notauli and medially of the parascutal carina .
the postoccipital muscle that originates from the first phragma and inserts on the postocciput .
the propleural muscle that arises medially from the prophragma and inserts on the posterodorsal margin of the propleuron .
the mesophragmal muscle that extends between the prophragma and mesophragma .
the gonostyle / volsella complex - harpal muscle that inserts on the median wall of the harpe and arises distally of the site of origin of the proximal gonostyle / volsella complex - harpal muscle .
the wing cell that is located on the wing .
the area of the first valvifer - first valvula complex that is proximal to the aulax ,  bears the ninth tergal condyle of the first valvifer and the second valviferal condyle of the first valvifer and is connected to the genital membrane by muscle .
the area of the first valvifer - first valvula complex that is delimited distally by the proximal margin of the aulax .
the line that secondarily divides a sclerite .
the sclerite that is located at the apex of the glossa in apoidea .
the annulus that is located distally of the pedicel .
the anatomical cluster composed of flagellomeres .
the projection that is lamella - like and is located on a rim ,  carina ,  apodeme or edge .
the anatomical space that is surrounded by sclerites and allows for the passage of haemolymph ,  nerves and tracheae .
the anatomical space that is surrounded by the proximal margin of the cupula .
the foramen that is delimited dorsally by the postocciput .
the leg that is located on the prothorax .
the tibia that is located on the fore leg .
the wing that is located on the mesothorax .
the articular surface that is concave and accommodates the condyle of another sclerite .
the line that is transverse ,  arched anteriorly and is continuous with the posterior margins of the mesoscutellar arms .
the area that is located posteriorly on the mesoscutellum and is delimited anteriorly by the frenal line .
the line that delimits dorsally the frontal triangle .
the area that extends along the lateral margin of the upper face .
the setiferous patch that is located on the frons .
the suture that diverges ventrally  ( or anteriorly )  from the coronal suture between the antennal foramina toward the anterior articulations of the mandibles .
the anatomical space that is delimited posteriorly by the distal part of the sitophore and anteriorly by the tormae .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of flagellomeres located between the pedicel and clava or the distalmost anellus and clava .
the annulus that is located in the funicle .
the apodeme that arises medially from the ventral part of the thorax and corresponds to the site of origin of interfurcal and coxal muscles .
the furca that is paired ,  arises medioventrally from the sternum and corresponds to the furcal pit .
the pit that corresponds to the furca .
the area that is located posteriorly on the prosternum and bears the profurca .
the lobe that is located on the stipes at the distal part of the posterior stipital sclerite distolateral to the lacinia .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of all abdominal segments posterior to abdominal segment 2 .
the area that is concave ,  transverse ,  and located anterolaterally on abdominal tergum 3 .
the area that is delimited by the intersection of the interorbital plane ,  the margin of the compound eye ,  the margin of the oral foramen ,  the occipital carina and the malar sulcus .
the setiferous patch that is located on the gena .
the anatomical system that is involved in copulation ,  fertilization and / or oviposition .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of epithelial cell ( s )  that secrete or excrete materials not related to their ordinary metabolic needs .
the lobe of the labium that is limited posteroproximally by the prementum ,  anteroproximally by the fold traversing the salivary orifice and laterally by the paraglossae .
the labial muscle that arises on the ventral part of the prementum ,  laterally to the ventral premento - salivarial muscle and inserts on the anterior glossal plate .
the groove that is located between the spiracle and the anterior margin of abdominal tergum 2 .
the compound organ that makes gametes .
the apophysis that is located ventromedially on the proximal margin of the cupula and is the site of insertion of the lateral s9 - cupulal muscle .
the sclerite that is located distally of the cupula and dorsolaterally of the volsella ,  surrounds the aedeagus dorsolaterally and does not connected to any sclerite distally .
the conjunctiva that is located at the distal apex of the harpe .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the gonostipites ,  volsellae and harpes .
the male genitalia muscle that arises from the basiura and inserts on the endophallus .
the sclerite that is located on the distoventral part of the gonostyle / volsella complex ,  and is articulated with the more proximal sclerites of the gononstyle / volsella complex .
the sclerite that is located dorsolaterally on the gonostyle / volsella complex ,  is connected to the distal margin of the cupula ,  to the proximal margin of the harpe ,  and to the lateral margin of the volsella .
the apodeme that is located proximally on the ventral part of the gonostipes .
the male genitalia muscle that arises proximally from the ventral part of the gonostipes and inserts on the volsella at the border between the gono -  and parossiculi .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of sclerites located distally of the cupula dorsolaterally of the volsella ,  and that surround the aedeagus .
the carina that is transverse and posteriorly directed laterally and is located on the abdominal tergite .
the seta that is located on the anterior margin of the hind wing and interlocks with the recurved posterior edge of the fore wing in hymenoptera during flight ,  making them functionally one winged .
the sclerite that is located distally on the gonostyle / volsella complex and does not connected to the cupula and to the volsella by conjunctiva or muscles .
the male genitalia muscle that arises form the harpe and inserts on the gonomacula .
the tagma that is located anterior to the thorax .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the cranium and compound eye cuticle .
the leg that is located on the metathorax .
the wing that is located on the metathorax .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of median plates .
the sclerite that articulates with the proximal end of the costal vein .
the sclerite that is connected to the lateral margin of the metanotum and bears the anterior metanotal wing process .
the multi - cellular organism that is classified in hymenoptera .
the carina that extends on the vertex between the outer orbits .
the anatomical space that is delimited anteriorly by the clypeus and posteriorly by the labrum .
the ligament that connects the proximolateral margin of the prementum with the proximal part of the ligula .
the area that is delimited proximally by the proximal margin of the sitophore ,  distally by the salivarial orifice .
the abdominal sternum that is the posteriormost visible sclerite located ventrally in the abdomen .
the area that extends on the posterior  ( ventral )  margin of the oral foramen along the site of attachments of the conjunctiva connecting the cranium with the maxillae and is delimited laterally by the pleurostomal fossa .
the subforaminal bridge that is delimited laterally by the dorsally extended hypostomal carina .
the carina that delimits the hypostoma from the cranium .
the sulcus that extends along the posteroventral margin of the cranium between the pleurostomal fossae and delimits the hypostoma .
the projection that is located on the posterolateral margin of the oral foramen at the junction of the hypostoma and the pleurostomal fossa .
the groove that does not correspond to a ridge .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of a ridge that extends along the margin of a sclerite and the marginal area of the sclerite delimited from the sclerite by the ridge articulating with the inflection of another sclerite .
the area that extends along the inner margin of the compound eye and is differentiated from the rest of the frons by different coloration .
the tarsal plantula that arises medially on the tarsomere .
the anatomical system that forms the covering layer of the animal ,  ectodermal in origin and composed of epidermal cells producing the cuticle .
the area that is elevated and extends between the antennal rims .
the median sulcus of the mesonotum between the anterior margin of the mesoscutellar - axillar complex and the anterior margin of the mesoscutellum .
the area that is located between the acetabular carina and the ventral mesopleural carina .
the compound organ that functions as producer and transporter of sperm ,  spermatophore and semen ,  composed of the testes ,  vas deferens ,  accessory glands and ductus ejaculatorius .
the ridge that corresponds to the metascutellar arm .
the pit that is located on the upper face between lateral ocelli and corresponds internally with a conical apodeme and not the tentorium .
the area that is limited posteriorly by the posterior ocellar line and laterally by the lateral ocellar line .
the seta that is located at the intersection of the margins of three ommatidiae .
the interocular distance that is the shortest between the inner margin of compound eyes .
the male genitalia muscle that connects the valvurae .
the conjunctiva that connects two segments .
the mesobasalar muscle that arises from the intersegmental membrane between the pronotum and the mesopectus and inserts on the mesobasalare .
the sclerite that is located on the intersegmental membrane .
the intersegmentalia that is located in between sterna .
the area that is unsculptured and is delimited by striae or punctures .
the carina that extends between the dorsal margin of the antennal rims .
the sternal sclerite in the venter of the ninth abdominal segment between the second valvifers .
the male genitalia muscle that connects the proximal part of parossiculi .
the sternal muscle that connects the lateral margins of the abdominal tergum 9 and extends internally of the external male genitalia .
the male genitalia muscle that connects the dorsal and ventral part of the gonostipes .
the labial muscle that arises from a palpal sclerite and inserts on the palpal sclerite distal to it .
the wing region that is delimited by the plica jugalis .
the carina that is longitudinal and mesal to the antennal base .
the area that is located apically on the gonostyle when it consist only from one sclerite and set off partly by conjunctiva .
the gland that empties between the base of the hypopharynx and the labium ,  or on the hypopharynx .
the anatomical structure that is distal to the proximal margin of the first sclerite of the labial palp .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the labium and maxillae .
the appendage that is encircled by the area that is proximally delimited by the lateral margins of the cardo and the posterior stipital sclerite laterally ,  and the anatomical line that is tangential to the salivary duct and traverses the salivary orifice anteriorly .
the epipharyngeal muscle that arises from the proximal part of the labrum and inserts on the distal epipharyngeal wall .
the seta that is located on the labrum .
the sclerite that is situated along the distal margin of the clypeus and is connected along its proximal margin with the distal margin of the epipharyngeal wall .
the lobe that extends proximally on the distal margin of the medial stipital wall ,  is adjacent to the basal lacinial sclerite ,  overlaps the proximal part of the galea .
the larval tagma that is located posterior to the thorax .
the larval tagma that is located anterior to the thorax .
the tagma that is located in the larva .
the larval tagma that is composed of the prothorax ,  mesothorax and metathorax and is located between the head and the abdomen .
the s9 - cupulal muscle that arises sublaterally from s9 and inserts medioventrally on the cupula .
the apodeme that is located laterally on the proximal margin of abdominal tergum 9 .
the area that is located between the notaulus and the parascutal carina .
the projection that is located on the prolpeuron posterolaterally of the epicoxal lobe and bears the procoxal condyle of the propleuron .
the area that is located laterally on the axilla and is delimited medially by the axillar carina .
the bar that extends from the dorsal axillar area to the mesoscutellum .
the area that is located anterolaterally on the basisternum and forms the median propleural site of articulation with the procoxa .
the carina that extends along the lateral margin of abdominal tergite 3 .
the gonostyle / volsella complex - penisvalval muscle that arises anterolaterally of the site of origin of the distodorsal gonostyle / volsella complex - penisvalval muscle and inserts laterally on the penisvalva .
the gonostyle / volsella complex - volsellal muscle that arises medially of the submedian conjunctiva on the distoventral margin of gonostyle / volsella complex .
the inflection that extends along the anterolateral margin of the mesoscutum and fit with the dorsal pronotal inflection .
the apodeme that arises from the base of the mesofurca .
the mesotrochanteral muscle that arises laterally from the lateral mesofurcal arm ,  laterally to the site of origin  of the median mesofurco - mesotrochanteral muscle and inserts on the mesotrochanteral apodeme .
the projection that is located on the posterodorsal margin of the axillula .
the metacoxal muscle that originates ventrally of the metapleural ridge and inserts anterolaterally on the dorsal margin of the metacoxa .
the anatomical line that is the shortest between the margins of the  median and lateral ocelli .
the ocellus that is paired .
the area of the pronotum that is lateral and delimited medially by the epomial carina .
the area that is located laterally on the propleuron and is delimited by the longitudinal carina of the propleuron .
the area that is located laterally on the propodeum ,  is delimited posteromedially by the lateral propodeal carina and is delimited laterally by the plica .
the carina that arises submedially from the anterior margin of the metapectal - propodeal complex ,  is longitudinal and extends towards the propodeal foramen .
the carina which is present on the lateral margin of the mesoscutellum .
the pit that is located along the posterolateral margin of the mesoscutellum .
the hypopharyngeal muscle that arises from the distal end of the anterior tentorial arm or from the inner surface of the head capsule and inserts on the lateral surface of the proximolateral processes of the sitophore .
the procoxal muscle that arises from the cervical apodeme and inserts on the procoxa on the opposite side from which it arises .
the depression that is located laterally and proximally on abdominal tergum 2 .
the apodeme that is located laterally on the postnotum .
the area that is located laterally on the tergum and is delimited by a longitudinal edge .
the appendage that is composed of the coxa and all distal leg segments and is connected to the pectus .
the segment that is part of a leg .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the glossa ,  paraglossae and labial palps .
the carina that extends along the lateral margin of the ventral propleural area .
the line that crosses the dorsal profurcal lamella and corresponds to the site of origin of the anterior profurcal lamella .
the carina that is longitudinal and is located on the metacoxa .
the epipharyngeal muscle that is unpaired and arises from the distal part of the pharyngeal wall and inserts along most of the length of the proximal epipharyngeal wall .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of abscissae extending along the long axis of the wing .
the area that is limited dorsally by the ventral margin of the antennal foramen laterally by the malar sulcus and ventrally by the oral foramen .
the anatomical line that is the shortest between the lower orbit and the ventrolateral margin of the cranium .
the sulcus that extends between the ventral margin of the compound eye and the base of the mandible .
the genitalia that is part of the male organism .
the appendage that is encircled by one sclerite that is connected to the cranium proximolaterally and to the maxillo - labial complex proximomedially via conjunctivae and articulates with the cranium via the anterior and posterior cranio - mandibular articulations .
the apodeme that corresponds to the site of insertion of the mandibular adductor muscle .
the condyle that is located ventrally  ( posteriorly )  on the proximolateral edge of the mandible and inserts into the pleurostomal fossa .
the gland that opens mesally at the base of the mandible .
the anatomical region that extends along the margin .
the row of setae that is located along the margin of the wing blade in the same plane as the wing blade .
the abscissa that is located along the anterior margin of the fore wing and is thought to correspond to the anterior abscissa of the radius  ( r1 )  .
the appendage that is encircled by the area that is proximally delimited by the hypostoma posteriorly ,  the median margin of the mandible laterally ,  the labrum anterolaterally and the labium medially .
the gland that opens medially at the bases of the maxillae .
the anatomical structure that is distal to the proximal margin of the first sclerite of the maxillary palp .
the male genitalia muscle that arises from the spiculum and inserts on the gonocondyle .
the gonossiculal muscle that arises ventromedially from the gonostyle / volsella complex and inserts laterally on the gonossiculus .
the impression that is longitudinal and located medially on the abdominal tergum 1 .
the wing vein that is posterior to the radial vein and is connected to the anterior margin of the anterior median plate .
the area that is located between the notauli .
the mesotrochanteral muscle that arises from the ventral surface of the lateral mesofurcal arm medial to the site of origin of the lateral mesofurco - mesotrochanteral muscle and inserts on the mesotrochanteral apodeme .
the line that is located in the anteroposterior median line of the mesoscutum .
the sulcus that is a median mesoscutal line and that is adjacent to the  ( internal )  median mesoscutal ridge .
the metacoxal muscle that arises from the paracoxal ridge and from the metadiscrimenal lamella and inserts anterolaterally on the dorsal margin of the metacoxa .
the depression that is oblique and located submedially on the mesopleuron between the fore coxa and posterolateral corner of the mesopleuron .
the ocellus that is located medially on the cranium .
the procoxal muscle that arises partly from the posteroventral surface of the ventral profurcal lamella and partly from the ventral surface of the profurcal arm .
the carina that is oriented anteroposteriorly and is located medially on the propodeum .
the sclerite that is located ventrally between the penisvalvae .
the sulcus that is located on the postgenal suture .
the cupulal muscle that arises medially from abdominal sternum 9 and inserts ventrolaterally on the cupula .
the area that is located posterolaterally and proximally on the coxa ,  proximal to the basicostal suture .
the inflection that extends along the dorsal margin of the mesopectus .
the ridge that extends along the posterior margin of the mesopectus .
the sulcus that extends along the posterior margin of the mesopectus ,  delimits the mesepimeral area and corresponds to the mesepimeral ridge .
the epimeron that is located on the mesopleuron .
a groove on the mesopleuron ,  extending ventrally from a pit under the base of the forewings and ,  when complete ,  reaching the anteroventral margin of the metathorax .
the area that is located anteriorly of the mesepimeral sulcus .
the basalare that is located in the mesothorax .
the acetabulum that is located posteroventrally on the mesopectus ,  accommodates the mesocoxa and is delimited anterolaterally by the postpectal carina .
the mesosubalare muscle that arises from the mesocoxa and inserts on the mesosubalare .
the discrimen that is located in the mesothorax and corresponds with the mesodiscrimenal lamella .
the discrimenal lamella that is located in the mesothorax .
the furca that is not paired ,  arises from the mesopectus and continuous with the mesodiscrimenal lamella .
the apodeme that connects the lateral mesofurcal arms and corresponds to the site of origin of the dorsal mesofurco - profurcal muscle .
the furcal pit that is located in the mesothorax .
the mesocoxal muscle that originates from the mesofurca and inserts on the mesocoxa .
the mesolaterophragmal muscle that arises from the mesofurca and inserts on the mesolaterophragma .
the metabasalar muscle that originates from the mesofurca and inserts on the metabasalare .
the sulcus that crosses the mesometapleuron from the posterolateral margin of the mesocoxal foramen to the mesopleural pit .
the line of separation that is located between the mesopectus and the metapectus .
the sclerite that is comprised of the fused meso -  and metapleura .
the area that is limited anteriorly by the pronotum ,  laterally by the basalare ,  axillary sclerites ,  subalare and the mesopectus and posterolaterally by the mesopostnotum and the metanotum .
the sclerite that is u - shaped in cross section ,  connected anteriorly with the pronotum and the propectus ,  dorsally with the basalare ,  the mesonotum ,  the second axillary sclerite and the subalare ,  posteriorly with the metapectus and bears the mesodiscrimenal lamella and the mesofurca .
the phragma that extends along the ventral  ( posterior )  margin of the ventral mesopostnotal flange and corresponds to the site of origin of the prophragmo - mesophragmal and the mesophragmo - metaphragmal muscles .
the carina that crosses the mesopleuron and limits ventrally the femoral depression .
the epicoxal sulcus that is located on the mesopleuron .
the area that is limited dorsally by the subalar ridge ,  posteroventrally by the speculum and ends posteriorly in the subalar pit .
the mesobasalar muscle that originates anteroventrally from the mesopleuron and insert on the mesobasalare .
the mesocoxal muscle that arises from the mesopleuron and inserts on the mesocoxa .
the hind wing third axillary muscle that arises from the mesopleuron and inserts on the third axillary sclerite of hind wing .
the pleuron that is located in the mesothorax .
the sclerite that bears the mesophragma and the mesolaterophragma .
the area that is located posteromedially on the  mesoscutellum ,  is delimited anteriorly by the posterior scutellar depression .
the sulcus that extends medially along the parascutal carina and corresponds to a shallow ridge .
the sulcus that extends along the anterior margin of the mesoscutum between the anterior - most point of the preaxilla and the anteroadmedian line and corresponds to the vertical lobe of the mesoscutum .
the area that is located posteriorly of the transscutal line and is composed of the axillae and the mesoscutellum .
the metanotal muscle that arises from the mesonotum and inserts on the metanotum .
the scutellum that is located on the mesonotum .
the scutum that is located on the mesonotum .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the prothorax ,  mesothorax and the metapectal - propodeal complex .
the metafurcal muscle that arises from the mesospinasternum and inserts on the metafurca .
the mesocoxal muscle that originates at least partly from the mesodiscrimenal lamella and inserts on the mesocoxa .
the procoxal muscle that arises anteriorly from the mesodiscrimenal lamella and inserts posteriorly on the procoxa .
the eusternum that is located in the mesothorax .
the subalare that is located in the mesothorax .
the spiracle that is located on the border of the pronotum and mesopleuron .
the thoracic segment that is located between the prothorax and the metathorax and is delimited by the mesopectus and the mesonotum .
the trochantin that is located in the mesothorax .
the basalare that is located in the metathorax .
the coxa that is located on the hind leg .
the acetabulum that is concave ,  is located ventrally on metapectal - propodeal complex and is delimited anteriorly by the transverse metepisternal carina and accommodates the base of the metacoxa .
the metasubalare muscle that arises from the metacoxa and inserts on the metasubalare .
the discrimen that is located in the metathorax and corresponds to the metadiscrimenal lamella .
the discrimenal lamella that is located in the metathorax .
the furca that is located medioventrally on the metapectus .
the apodeme that arises ventromedially form the metapectus ,  extends towards the metapleural apodeme and corresponds to the site of origin of metacoxal and metatrochanteral muscles .
the furcal pit that is located in the metathorax .
the metacoxal muscle that originates from the metafurca and inserts on the posterior margin of the metacoxa .
the metatrochanteral muscle that arises from the metafurca and inserts on the metatrochanteral apodeme .
the second abdominal sternal muscle that arises from the metafurca and inserts on abdominal sternum 2 .
the median process on the metascutellum .
the area that is concave ,  and is delimited medially by the metascutellum ,  laterally by the supraalar area and posteriorly by the metascutellar arm .
the sulcus that extends along the anterior margin of the fused metanotum and abdominal tergum 1 and delimit an anterior narrow ,  usually differently sculptured area .
the metatrochanteral muscle that originates from the humeral sclerite and inserts on the metatrochanteral apodeme .
the alinotum that is located in the metathorax ,  is connected with the mesoscutellum and the mesopostnotum anteriorly and the acrotergite of the first abdominal tergum posteromedially .
the sclerite that is connected anteriorly with the mesopectus dorsally with the metanotum ,  the metabasalare ,  second axillary sclerite of the hind wing and the metasubalare and articulates with the metacoxae and the metasoma .
the area that is located anteriorly of the metapleural carina .
the phragma that corresponds to the site of origin of the mesophragmo - metaphragmal and metaphragmo - second abdominal tergal muscles .
the pleural apodeme that is connected with the metafurca .
the area that is located anterodorsally on the metapleuron .
the carina that delimits the metapleuron dorsally from the propodeum ,  extends from just ventral of the metapleural arm to the metacoxal articulation and passes anteroventral to the propodeal spiracle .
the carina that delimits posteriorly the metapleural triangle .
the epicoxal sulcus that extends anteriorly along and close to the metapleural epicoxal carina .
the pleural pit that is corresponds to the metapleural apodeme .
the pleural ridge that corresponds to the metapleural sulcus .
the sulcus that corresponds to the ridge that is continuous with the third phragma and extends between the metapleural apodeme .
the area that is located anteroventrally on the metapectus ,  is delimited ventrally by the ventral carina of the metapleuron and is triangular .
the metabasalar muscle that arises from the metapleuron and inserts on the metabasalare .
the metanotal muscle that arises from the metapleuron and inserts on the metanotum .
the metasubalare muscle that arises from the metapleuron and inserts on the metasubalare .
the metatrochanteral muscle that arises from the metapleuron and inserts on the metatrochanteral apodeme .
the hind wing third axillary muscle that originates from the metapleuron and inserts on the third axillary sclerite of the hind wing .
the area of the metapectal - propodeal complex that is anterior to the metapleural carina and lateral to the metadiscrimen .
the area that is elevated and extends along the posterior margin of the metanotum from the metascutellum to the supraalar area .
the carina that delimits laterally the metascutellum .
the area that is located posteromedially on the metanotum ,  is delimited laterally by the metanotal trough and corresponds to the reservoir of the dorsal vessel .
the tagma that is connected anteriorly to the metapectal - propodeal complex at the propodeal foramen and consists of abdominal segments .
the acetabulum that is concave ,  surrounds the nucha and accommodates the base of the metasoma .
the area that is located ventrally of the metapectus and limited dorsally by any line .
the subalare that is located in the metathorax .
the thoracic segment that is located between the mesothorax and the first abdominal tergum and is delimited by the metanotum and the metapectus .
the tibia that is located on the hind leg .
the depression that is concave and is located at the anterior end of the metapleural sulcus .
the scrobe that is located anteroventrally on the mesopectus and accommodates the mesocoxa .
the episternum that is located anteroventrally of the metapleural sulcus .
the coxa that is located on the mid leg .
the leg that is located on the mesothorax .
the depression that is located posteromedially on the mesoscutum .
the joint that is composed of two sclerites that are connected with one articulation .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the labrum ,  epipharyngeal wall ,  hypopharyngeal wall  ( including the sitophore )  ,  mandibles ,  maxillae ,  labium and conjunctivae connecting them .
the sensillum that corresponds to a multiporous plate .
the portion of tissue that is composed of contractile fibers .
the apodeme that corresponds to the site of insertions of the lateral metapleuro - metanotal muscles .
the intrinsic leg muscle that originates within the tibia and femur and has a long tendon that inserts through the terminal tarsomere onto the unguitractor .
the area that is located posteroventrally on the pronotum and corresponds to the site of origin of first flexor of the fore wing muscle .
the ridge that extends along the anterior margin of the netrion .
the sulcus that  anteriorly delimits the netrion .
the line that extends submedially along the mesoscutum and corresponds to the median border of the site of origin of the first mesopleuro - mesonotal muscle .
the part of the margin of a sclerite that is concave .
the suture that is located between the mesonotum and mesopleuron .
the area that is located dorsally on the thoracic segment and limited laterally by the pleuron .
the area that is raised and surrounds the propodeal foramen .
the area that is located on the cranium and is delimited anteriorly by the occipital suture and posteriorly by the postoccipital sutures .
the carina that surrounds dorsolaterally the occiput .
the fossa that articulates with the cranial condyle of the propleuron .
the depression that is located submedially on the occiput ,  ventral to the occipital carina .
the sulcus that is paired ,  extends dorsally from the posterior tentorial pit towards lateral ocellus and corresponds with the occipital ridge .
the area that is concave and surrounds the postocciput .
the apodeme that corresponds to the site of origin of the occlusor muscle of the thoracic spiracle .
the depression that extends along the lateral margin of a lateral ocellus or along anterior margin of the anterior ocellus .
the multi - tissue structure that is located on the top of the head ,  composed of the corneal lens ,  pigment cell ,  rhabdoms and synaptic plexus .
the anatomical line that is shortest and connects the compound eye and the lateral ocellus .
the sulcus that extends along the margin of compound eye and corresponds to the circumocular ridge .
one of the facets of the compound eye .
the sclerite that functions like a lid and covers the spiracular opening .
the foramen that is located anteriorly / ventrally on the cranium in which the mouthparts are positioned .
the sclerite that is located proximodorsally on the pretarsus and connects the distodorsal margin of the telotarsus with the dorsal part of the arolium .
the margin of the compound eye .
the band that extends along the medial margin of the eye .
the carina that is longitudinal and extends anteriorly on the lateral surface of the mandible .
the impression that extends dorsally of the condylar carina of the mandible .
the line that extends along the border between the eye and gena .
the anatomical space that receives sperm ejected from the aedeagus .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the first valvulae ,  second valvulae ,  third valvulae ,  first valvifers ,  second valvifers and female t9 .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the third valvulae .
the sensillum with a paddle - shaped cuticular componenet on the probasitarsus .
the area that is located on the stipes and which articulates with the maxillary palp .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the palpal segments .
the ridge that extends along the anterior margin of the metapectus .
the sulcus that corresponds to the paracoxal ridge .
the lobe that is connected to the distal margin of the prementum posteroproximally ,  to the premental hypopharynx proximolaterally and anteroproximally ,  to the glossa proximomedially and bears the basiparaglossal brush and the paraglossal sclerite .
the labial muscle that arises from the ventral part of the prementum ,  anterior to the origin of the premento - glossal muscle and ventral premento - salivarial muscle and inserts just distally of the distal margin of the prementum .
the projection that is located distolaterally on the hypostoma and extends to the clypeus separating the mandibular socket from the oral foramen .
the area that is located on the face and delimited ventromedially by the epistomal sulcus .
the carina that surrounds the compound eye .
the area that is located ventromedially on the paraocular area and is surrounded partly by the epistomal sulcus .
the area that is the dorsomedian part of the gonostipes and is the site of origin of the distodorsal and proximodorsal gonostyle / volsella complex - penisvalval muscles .
the area that is narrow and connects the parapenis with the rest of the gonostipes .
the signum that is located between the notaulus and the parascutal carina and corresponds to the site of origin of the dorsoventral indirect flight muscle .
the area that is delimited medially by the parapsidal line and laterally by the parascutal carina .
the area that is located on the upper face ,  is delimited medially by the antennal scrobe and laterally by the inner orbit .
the rim that extends along the lateral margin of the lateral area of the mesoscutum and delimits the preaxilla .
the projection that is lateral and located apically on the penisvalva .
the area that is lateral on the cranium between the frontal and occipital areas ,  separated above by the coronal suture .
the band that is located on the anterior part of the larval head .
the male genitalia muscle that arises from the proximal apex of the parossiculus and inserts on the medially on the penisvalva .
the male genitalia muscle that originates from the parossiculus and inserts on the endophallic membrane around the phallotrema .
the sclerite that is connected via conjunctiva distomedially to the gonostipes ,  and articulates with the gonossiculus .
the area that is round and differs from surrounding regions in sculpture ,  setae ,  and / or pigmentation .
the sclerite that is located ventrally of the thoracic segment and bears the furca and the lateral coxal condyle of the pleuron .
the antennal segment that is connected proximally to the scape and distally to the flagellum .
the sclerite that is in the middle of the external male genitalia ,  surrounds the distal part of the ductus ejaculatorius and the endophallus .
the male genitalia muscle that arises from the median surface of the proximal apex of the penisvalva and inserts on the endophallus .
the gonossiculal muscle that arises from the penisvalva .
the male genitalia muscle that arises from the medial surface of the proximal part of the penisvalva and inserts on the endophallus just around the phallotrema .
the anatomical cluster that comprises the ventral marginal of the cranium ,  including the clypeus ,  the pleurostomata ,  and the hyperstomata .
a sclerotic ring surrounding the outer spiracular opening .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the cupulae ,  gonostipites and volsellae .
the anatomical space that is the distal opening of the endophallus .
the developing adult after pupal - adult apolysis ,  i .e .
the antecosta that corresponds to the site of attachment of the dorsal longitudinal muscles in the thorax .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of fine ,  dense setae ,  acanthae or microtrichiae .
the patch that is impressed and corresponds to an apophysis .
the sclerite that is located proximoventrally on the pretarsus and is connected proximally with the unguitractor plate and distally with the arolium .
the apodeme that is located on the pleuron .
the apophysis that is adjacent to the pleural ridge .
the anatomical cluster composed of the pro -  ,  meso -  ,  and metapleura .
the pit that is located on the pleuron and corresponds to the pleural apophysis .
the ridge that extends between the pleural wing process and the lateral coxal articulation and marks the border between the episternum and epimeron .
the sulcus that corresponds to the pleural ridge and separates the episternum from the epimeron .
the fossa that is located on the dorsal margin of the pleuron and accommodates the second axillary sclerite .
the sclerite that is located on the pleuron .
the line of separation between the pleural region and the venter ,  lying mesad of the limb bases ,  but obscured when the latter are fused with the sterna .
the sclerite that articulates with the leg and is connected along its dorsal margin with the notum and ventral margin with the sternum .
the area that extends on the ventral  ( anterior )  margin of the cranium along the site of origin of the conjunctiva connecting the mandible with the cranium and is delimited posteriorly  ( ventrally )  by the posterior  ( ventral )  margin of the pleurostomal fossa and anteriorly  ( dorsally )  by the anterior  ( dorsal )  margin of the pleurostomal condyle and laterally by the mouth margin .
the condyle that is located on the anterior  ( dorsal )  margin of the pleurostoma and inserts into the mandibular acetabulum .
the fossa that is located postero -   ( ventro -  )  medially on the pleurostoma and accommodates the mandibular condyle .
the ridge that extends between the pleurostomal fossa and pleurostomal condyle and delimits the lateral margin of the pleurostoma .
the suture that is dorsal to the mandible and is part of the subgenal suture .
the carina that arises from the anterior margin of the abdominal tergum 1 medially of the propodeal spiracle extends to the posterior propodeal projection .
the wing fold that is located between the mediocubital field and axillary region .
the wing fold that is located between the cubital field and the first vannal vein .
the area that is delimited laterally by the metapleural carina and medially by the plica .
the area corresponding to the upper margin of the mandible ,  above the acetabular groove ,  commonly ending in the preapical tooth or teeth .
the setiferous patch that is located ventrally on the mesopleuron posterior to the epicnemial carina .
the sulcus that extends posteriorly along the epicnemial carina .
the process that is located anterolaterally on the mesoscutellar - axillar complex and separates the site of origin of the fore wing from the site of origin of the hind wing .
the area that is located on the clypeus and is delimited by the epistomal sulcus and a medial transverse anatomical line .
the usual sixth vein of the wing ,  associated basally with the cubitus .
the mandibular muscle that arises posterodorsally from the cranium and inserts on the tendon attached anteroproximally on the mandible .
the area that is located on the posteroventral corner of the preaxilla and articulates with the anterior extension of the lateral axillar area .
the area that is delimited laterally distally and proximally by the sclerites that are connected to the distal margin of the prementum and receive the site of insertion of the premento - paraglossal muscle .
the sclerite of the posterior glossal plate that is paired .
the labral muscle that arises from the upper face laterally to the anterior fronto - labral muscle and inserts on the torma .
the area that extends along the posterior margin of the mesopleuron and is delimited anteriorly by the mesepimeral sulcus .
the inflection that extends along the posterior margin of the mesepimeron ,  posteriorly of the subalar pit to the coxal articulation .
the mesolaterophragmal muscle that originates from the mesofurca and inserts on the mesolaterophragma posterior to the site of origin of the anterior mesofuco - mesolaterophragmal muscle .
the mesonoto - mesotrochanteral muscle that arises from the dorsal axillar area ,  posteriorly of the site of origin of the anterior mesonoto - mesotrochanteral muscle  ( if present )  and inserts on the mesotrochanteral apodeme .
the mesofurcal muscle that originates proximally from the mesofurca and inserts on the mesopleuron .
the line that extends along the posterior margin of the mesoscutellum and corresponds to the posterior mesoscutellar ridge .
the articular process that is located on the lateral margin of the alinotum and articulates with the first axillary sclerite .
the anatomical line that is the shortest between the margin of the lateral ocelli .
the ridge that extends along the dorsal margin of the dorsal profurcal lamella and corresponds to the site of origin of the lateral profurco - procoxal muscle .
the inflection that extends along the posterior margin of the pronotum and articulates with the anterior mesopleural inflection .
the sulcus that extends parallel with the posterior margin of the pronotum and corresponds to the ridge of the posterior pronotal inflection .
the propodeal spine that is located posteromedially of the first abdominal spiracle .
the line that extends just posterior of the posterior mesoscutellar ridge / mesoscutellar arms and delimits the posterior margin of the mesoscutellar pulsatory organ and the anterior margin of the mesopostscutellum .
the area that is located posteriorly on the mesoscutum .
the area that is limited medially by the transmetanotal carina and bears the postmedian metanotal wing process .
the tentorial pit that corresponds to posterior tentorial arm .
the spiracle that is located dorsally on the border between the mesopectus and the metapectus .
the edge that is located at the intersection of the dorsal and lateral margins of the pronotum .
the edge that is located at the intersection of the mesepimeral ridge and the inflected dorsal margin of the mesopleuron .
the area that is limited anteriorly by the posterolateral pronotal sulcus .
the carina that extends parallel to the posterolateral margin of the pronotum and delimits the posterolateral margin of pronotum .
the sulcus that arises from the ventrolateral pit of the pronotum and reaches the posterolateral carina of the pronotum ventral to the anterior thoracic spiracle .
the pit that corresponds to the dilator muscle apodeme .
the area that is located on the occiput ventrally of the occipital foramen .
the subforaminal bridge that is sclerotised and limited anteriorly  ( ventrally )  by the hypostomal carina and is subdivided medially by the median sulcus of the postgenal bridge .
the setiferous patch that is located on the postgena .
the pit that corresponds to the ventral - most point of the posterior site of fusion of the ventral lamella of the tentorium .
the sulcus that corresponds with the postgenal ridge .
the groove that is median ,  vertical and extends between the occipital and oral foramina separating the postgenae .
the abscissa that is marginal and located distal to the marginal vein .
the fossa that is located on the lateral axillar area and articulates with the posterior end of the first axillary sclerite of the fore wing .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the sclerites that are on the postmental area .
the sclerite that bears the phragma and is located posterior to a notum .
the ridge that corresponds to the postoccipital sulcus .
the sulcus that is located on the postoccipital suture .
the line that delimits the postocciput from the cranium .
the area that is delimited by the postoccipital sulcus or postoccipital carina and the occipital foramen and bears the propleural fossa of the cranium .
the sulcus that extends between the posterior margin of the lateral ocelli .
the area posterior to the imaginary line intersecting the lateral ocelli and anterior to the occipital carina .
the carina that extends posteriorly from the genal sulcus .
the carina that delimits anterolaterally the mesocoxal depression .
the phragma that is located posteriorly on a thoracic segment .
the area corresponding to the postcostal lip of a definitive sternal plate that includes the intersegmental sclerotization following .
the area that corresponds to the narrow postcostal lip of a postnotal thoracic plate .
the tooth that is located distodorsally on the mandible .
the notch that is located on the margin of the second valvifer immediately anterior to the basal articulation of the second valvulae .
the area that is delimited laterally by the parascutal carina ,  adjacent to the tegula anteriorly and bears the anterior and antemedian mesonotal wing processes .
the carina that extends across the preaxilla and separates the articulation area for the tegula .
the labial muscle that is unpaired ,  arises from the postmentum and inserts on the proximal margin of the prementum .
the sclerite that is median ,  is connected via conjunctiva along its proximolateral margins to the stipites ,  is articulated with the labial palps ,  is continuous along its distal margin with the ligula and distolateral margins with the distal hypopharynx and receives the site of attachments of the extrinsic labial palp muscles .
the carina that is transverse and extends posteriorly of the lateral ocelli and compound eye and delimits anteriorly the preoccipital lunula .
the sulcus that arises medially from the anterior margin of the occipital carina and extends towards the anterior ocellus .
the area that is concave ,  is located on the vertex and is limited anteriorly by the preoccipital carina and posteriorly by the occipital carina .
the pit that is located on upper face adjacent the anterior margin of the median ocellus and corresponds internally to a conical apodeme and not the tentorium .
the anatomical cluster that includes the labrum ,  hypopharynx and labium .
the carina that is located on the face ,  parallels the inner orbit and is paired .
the intersegmentalia that is located on the mesopectus - pronotum intersegmental membrane and corresponds to the site of origin of the anterior thoracic spiracle occlusor muscle .
the ridge that seperates the prescutum from scutum .
the sulcus that sets off the prescutum from the scutum and corresponds to the prescutal ridge .
the area that is located on the alinotum and is limited by the antecostal suture and prescutal suture .
the sulcus that delimits anteriorly the speculum and corresponds to the anterior margin of the speculum .
the area that is located between the first metasomal spiracle and metapleural arm and delimited laterally by the metapleural carina .
the area that is located on the basisternum and is delimited by the sternacostal sulcus .
the patch that is enlarged ,  sclerotized ,  and located at the apex of one or more wing veins on the anterior margin of the wing .
the anatomical cluster that is apical to the telotarsus and composed of the empodium ,  auxilia ,  planta ,  pulvillum ,  unguis ,  unguitractor plate ,  auxiliar sclerite and manubrium .
the anatomical space that is the transition from the ductus ejaculatorius to the endophallus and therefore the transition from the internal to the external male genitalia .
the area on the sclerite that is raised .
the discrimen that is located in the prothorax and corresponds to the prodiscrimenal lamella .
the discrimenal lamella that is located in the prothorax .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the profurcal arms .
the sternal apophysis that is paired ,  arises from the furcasternum of the prothorax and continuous with the prodiscrimenal lamella .
the furcal pit that is located in the prothorax .
the laterocervical muscle that arises medially from the anterior surface of the dorsal profurcal lamella .
the process that is located on an edge .
the depression that is dorsomedian and is located on the pronotum .
the area of the pronotum that is subhorizontal and located posteriorly of the pronotal neck .
the setiferous patch that corresponds with the transverse sulcus of the pronotum .
the evagination that extends along the anterior margin of the pronotum and overlaps the head - propectus articulation .
the area that is located dorsally on the posterior margin of the pronotum and overlaps the anterior thoracic spiracle .
the area of the pronotum that is delimited posterodorsally by an edge and that accommodates the posterior surface of the head .
the area of the pronotum that is median ,  raised and limited laterally by sharp edges .
the projection that is part of the pronotum .
the corner that is located anterolaterally on the horizontal part of the collar .
the area that is located on the pronotum and that is vertical .
the sulcus that extends along the dorsal margin of the pronotum and delimits the dorsal pronotal area .
the verricule that is located on the anterosubmedial pronotum .
the laterocervical muscle that arises medially from the pronotum and insert on the cervical apodeme .
the mesobasalar muscle that originates from the posterolateral part of the pronotum and inserts on the mesobasalare .
the anterior thoracic spiracle occlusor muscle that arises from the pronotum .
the postoccipital muscle that arises from the pronotum and inserts on the postocciput .
the procoxal muscle that arises from the pronotum and inserts on the posterolateral margin of the procoxa .
the profurcal muscle that arises along the ventral margin of the pronotum ,  and inserts laterally on the profurca .
the prophragmal muscle that originates medially from the pronotum and inserts submedially on the prophragma .
the propleural muscle that arises medially from the pronotum and inserts on the posterodorsal margin of the propleuron .
the notum that is located in the prothorax .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the prosternum and the propleuron .
the phragma that extends along the anterior margin of the mesonotum .
the apodeme that is located on the posterodorsal corner of the lateral propleural area and corresponds to the site of muscle attachment .
the sulcus that extends along the dorsal margin of the propleuron .
the epicoxal sulcus that sets of the epicoxal lobe from the ventral part of the ventral propleural area .
the postoccipital muscle that arises from the propleuron and inserts on the postocciput .
the procoxal muscle that arises from along the posterodorsal margin of the propleuron and inserts on the procoxa .
the protrochanteral muscle that arises from the propleuron and inserts on the protrochanteral apodeme .
the pleuron that is articulated with the fore leg ,  connected dorsolaterally  ( anterolaterally )  with the pronotum and ventrally  ( posteriorly )  with the prosternum .
the area that is located between the propodeal foramen and metacoxal foramina .
the carina that is located on the propodeum .
the foramen that is located on the metapectal - propodeal complex in which the petiole is positioned .
the articular process that is located on the margin of the propodeal - metapectal complex around the propodeal foramen and bears the metasomal condyle of the propodeum .
the second abdominal sternal muscle that originates ventral to the metaphragma and inserts on the anterodorsal margin of the abdominal sternite 2 .
the second abdominal tergal muscle that arises from the abdominal tergum 1 and inserts on the abdominal tergum 2 .
the mesofurcal muscle that arises from the prospinasternum and inserts on the mesofurca .
the notch that separates the basisternum from the furcasternum in the prosternum .
the procoxal muscle that arises from the prosternum and inserts on the procoxa .
the sclerite that is connected posteriorly to the propleuron and bears the prodiscrimen and the profurca .
the thoracic segment that is located between the head and the mesothorax is composed of the pronotum ,  the propectus and the fore leg .
the tibial spur that is located on the fore leg ,  is curved and together with the probasitarsus forms the strigil .
the gonostyle - parossiculal muscle that arises proximally from the lateral part of the gonostipes and inserts on the proximal part of the parossiculus .
the dorsal gonostyle / volsella complex penisvalval muscle that arises proximodorsally from the gonostyle / volsella complex and inserts on the penisvalva distally of the site of insertion of the distodorsal gononstyle / volsella complex - penisvalva muscle .
the apodeme that is located laterally on the proximal margin of the cupula and corresponds to the site of insertion of the second lateral 9th sterno - cupulal muscle .
the ventral gonostyle / volsella complex - penisvalval muscle that arises ventromedially from the gonostyle / volsella complex ,  inserts on the proximal end of the penisvalva and is oriented proximodorsally .
the projection that is medial and located apically on the penisvalva .
the flange that extends along the dorsal margin of the dorsal mesopostnotal flange .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the axillary sclerites and the humeral plate .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the meso -  and metathorax and if the latter is fused with ,  the first abdominal tergum .
the depression that is point - like ,  without a flat bottom ,  and occurs in areas of punctate surface sculpture .
the area that is located posteriorly on the tergum of the last externally visible segment of the abdomen .
the wing vein that is connected to the second axillary sclerite and extends posterior to the subcosta .
the area that is located proximally on the scape ,  is limited distally by a constriction and bears proximally the basal knob .
the wing vein that connects the radial vein with the medial vein .
the area that extends external to the dorsal ramus of the first valvula .
the area that is located proximally on valvulae and is connected to the valvifers .
the wing region anterior to the vannal fold containing the costa ,  subcosta ,  radius ,  medius ,  cubitus ,  and postcubitus .
the anatomical system that is involved in reproduction .
the epipharyngeal muscle that arises from the clypeus and inserts on the epipharyngeal wall .
the hypopharyngeal muscle that arises from the upper face and inserts on the proximolateral process of the sitophore .
the ridge that extends along the ventral surface of the second valvula that is partially enclosed by the aulax .
the apodeme that is elongate .
the carina that extends along the margin or edge of a sclerite .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of repeated units of anatomical structures .
the row that is composed of impressions .
the row that is composed of setae .
the carina that is irregularly non - linear .
the anatomical space that is located on the boundary of the hypopharyngeal wall and the labium .
the area that is adjacent to the proximal end of the salivary duct and corresponds to the site of insertion of the dorsal and ventral premento - salivarial muscles .
the sensillum with a scale - like cuticular component .
the antennal segment that is proximal to the pedicel and is connected to the head via the radicle .
the area of the cuticle that is strongly sclerotised ,  with thick exocuticle and is surrounded by conjunctivae .
the setiferous patch that is used for pollen storage .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of antennal scrobes .
the area that is impressed and is for the reception or concealment of another sclerite .
the area that is located on the sclerite and that is composed of repetitive anatomical structures .
the apodeme that originates from the scutoscutellar ridge and fuses with the posterior part of the mesoscutellum .
the area that is median ,  convex and is delimited anteriorly by the scutoscutellar sulcus and laterally by the axillar depression .
the depression that is medially located on the scutoscutellar suture .
the ridge that extends along the anterior margin of the mesoscutellum and corresponds to the scutoscutellar suture .
the sulcus that extends along the scutoscutellar suture .
the line that traverses the mesonotum between the postmedian notal wing processes .
the axillary sclerite that articulates ventrally with the pleuron and medially with the first axillary sclerite ,  posteriorly with the third axillary sclerite and is connected with the base of the radial vein .
the sclerite that is located at the base of the mediocubital field ,  folding convexly on the outer edge of the first median plate along the plica basalis .
the mesonotal muscle that arises medially from mesopleuron and inserts on the ventral surface of the lateral axillar area .
the metaphragmal muscle that arises from the mesophragma and inserts on the metaphragma .
the gonostyle / volsella complex - harpal muscle that inserts on the median wall of the harpe and arises proximally of the site of origin of the distal gonostyle / volsella complex - harpal muscle .
the area of the second valvifer - second valvula - third valvula complex that is proximal to the basal articulation and to the processus musculares and articulates with female t9 .
the area of the second valvifer - second valvula - third valvula complex that is distal to the basal articulation and to the processus musculares and is limited medially by the median body axis .
an anatomical structure that is metameric and is connected to other metameric subdivisions by muscles and is delimited by its sclerites .
multicellular anatomical structure with largely bona fide boundary that transduces some sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
the patch that differs from surrounding region by presence of sensilla .
the sensillar patch that is located on the ventral surface of the male flagellomere .
a sense organ embedded in the integument and consisting of one or a cluster of sensory neurons and associated sensory structures ,  support cells and glial cells forming a single organized unit with a largely bona fide boundary .
the sensillum that is curved .
the patch that differs from the surrounding region by having denser setae .
the flagellomere that is modified and located on a male organism .
the area that corresponds to the site of the origin of a muscle .
the sclerite that is located in the proximal part of the hypopharygeal wall delimited distally by the functional mouth and proximally by the proximal boundary of the cibarium .
the area that is anteriorly on the mesonotum and delimited posteriorly by the skaphion carina .
the carina that delimits the skaphion posteriorly .
the sclerite that is unpaired and located just dorsally of the basal part of the aedeagus in some aculeata .
the spur that is located on the tibia and is adhesive .
the area that is smooth ,  located laterally of the frontal carina and is surrounded by sculptured regions of the upper face .
the pouch that accommodates the sperm .
the apophysis that is located medially on the anterior margin of the abdominal sternum 9 and corresponds to the site of origin of the mediolateral s9 - cupulal muscles .
the apophysis that is located medially on the spinasternum .
the sclerite that is located anteriorly on the thoracic sternum and bears the spina .
the process that lacks non - sclerotised ring at the base .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the distal end of the trachea and the margin of the sclerite or conjunctiva surrounding the spiracular opening .
the process that is surrounded by conjunctiva and evaginated and that is basally sclerotized .
the suture that extends along the border of the basisternum and sternellum .
the line that marks the site of origin of the mesopleuro - basalare and first mesopleuro - mesonotal muscle .
the area that is located on the eusternum posteriorly of the site of origin of the furca .
the sternite that is located on the abdominal sternum .
the area that is located on the integument and is ventral of the ventral diaphragm .
the patch on the wing that is sclerotized and is on the anterior margin of the fore wing .
the appendage that is connected posteroproximally to the hypostoma ,  anteroproximally and lateroproximally to the mandible and medioproximally to the labium and the hypopharynx via conjunctiva ,  is connected to the cranium via muscles and that bears the maxillary palp .
the area that is delimited by the mesepimeral inflection and corresponding subalar ridge and bears the mesopleural wing process .
the pit that is located posterodorsally on the mesopectus corresponds to the posterodorsal edge of the mesopleuron .
the sclerite that is located on the dorsal margin of the pterothoracic pectus posterior to the pleural wing articulation .
the area that is located in between the anal opening and the genitalia .
the area that is located ventrally of the antennal rim and is delimited by the subantennal grooves and the epistomal sulcus .
the scrobe that is located ventrally of the antennal foramen and accommodates the proximal part of the antenna .
the area that is elevated ,  located on the lateroventral margin of the mesoscutellar axillar complex and is continuous anteriorly with the postalar process .
the wing vein that is connected to the first axillary sclerite and extends posterior to the costa .
the carina that is located on the cranium ,  ventrally of the gena and extending from the hypostomal carina to the facial articulation of the mandible .
the row of setae that extends along the carina paramandibular process and curves behind the mandibular base .
the carina that extends laterally on the abdominal tergite .
the impression extends along the lateral margin of the metasomal mediotergite .
basal - most portion of the forewing vein complex that occurs behind the costal cell ;  measured from the constriction that delimits the humeral plate to the point at which the vein touches the leading edge of the wing apically .
the carina that arises from the anterior mandibular articulation that is located medially of the orbital carina and laterally of the frontal carina .
the carina that is located along the ventral metapleural margin ,  between the mesocoxal foramen and metacoxal foramen .
the signum that is located submedially on the ventral face of the mesopleuron .
the area that is located ventrally on the pectus .
the groove that corresponds to a ridge .
the area that is located laterally of the longitudinal metanotal carina .
the sclerite that is located dorsally of the anal opening .
the area that is located medially on the lower face between the dorsal margin of the clypeus and the anatomical line that connects the dorsalmost points of the left and right antennal rims .
the line that marks the fusion of two ancestral sclerites .
the setiferous patch that is located on the synsternum .
the translucent patch that is located on the synsternite .
the sternite that is at least two times as long as an adjacent sternite .
the translucent patch that is located submedially on the syntergum .
the syntergum that is the posteriormost sclerite on the dorsum of the abdomen .
the anatomical structure that is a distinctly delimited group of segments .
the spur that is curved and projects from the apex of the last tarsal segment on either side of the arolium of the pretarsus .
the projection that is median ,  membraneous and is located distally on the ventral margin of the tarsomere .
the annulus that is the part of the tarsus .
the leg segment that is apical to the tibia .
the cuticular evagination that is located laterally of the preaxilla and obscures the anterior mesonoto - first axillary articulation and the mesopleuro - second axillary sclerite joints .
the tarsomere that is apical .
the area that is located on the gena ,  posterior to the compound eye .
the portion of tissue that is fibrous ,  strong ,  composed of tendon cells and connects the muscle to the integument .
the apodeme that extends between the posterior tentorial pit and the anterior tentorial pit .
the apodeme that connects medially the tentorial arms .
the pit on the cranium that corresponds to the tentorium .
the muscle that arises from the dorsal surface of the anterior broadened part of the anterior tentorial arm and inserts on the scape .
the labial muscle that arises from the cranium and inserts on the labium .
the maxillar muscle that arises on the posteroventral part of the anterior tentorial arm and inserts on the median wall of the stipes .
the apodeme that has its sites of origin marked by the anterior and posterior tentorial pits and gular sulci .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the first and second valvulae .
the sclerite that is located on the tergum .
the area that is located on the integument and is dorsal of the ventral diaphragm .
the gonad that is consisting of testis follicles ,  is connected with the vas deferens and seminal vesicle .
the tergite that is located in the third abdominal segment .
the axillary sclerite that corresponds to the site of insertion of the mesopleuro - third axillary sclerite muscles and is connected proximally with the fourth axillary sclerite .
the mesonotal muscle that originates from the ventral apodeme of the first phragma and inserts on the acropleural apodeme of the mesopleuron .
the second abdominal tergal muscle that arises from the metaphragma and inserts on the dorsal surface of the second abdominal tergum .
the area of the second valvifer - third valvula complex that is posterior to the distal vertical conjunctiva of the second valvifer - third valvula complex .
the body segment that is located in the thorax .
the sternum that is located on a thoracic segment .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the pterothorax and the metapectus .
the patch that is located on the gastrocoelus and has specialized sculpture .
the leg segment that is proximal to the tarsus and distal to the femur .
the spur that is located distally on a tibia .
the projection that is located distally on the mandible .
the area that is located between the antennal rims .
the area that is delimited by the ventrally bifurcating central keel .
the foramen that is located on the head in which the radicle is positioned .
the carina that divides the dorsal axillar area into horizontal and vertical areas .
the patch that is less melanized than the surrounding area and is translucent .
the carina that delimits the supraalar area posteriorly .
the sulcus that extends from the mesopleural pit to the mesocoxal articulation .
the line that traverses the mesoscutum and originates from the lateral margin between the antemedian and postmedian notal wing processes .
the carina that delimits the anterior vertical area of abdominal segment 2 .
the epipharyngeal muscle that extends between the lateral parts of the sitophore .
the carina that delimits posteriorly the pronotal neck .
the sulcus that corresponds to the anteromedian pronotal ridge .
the area that is located proximally on the femur and is delimited by a groove .
the leg segment that is located proximal to the femur and distal to the coxa .
the sclerite that is located anterolaterally of the coxa and corresponds to the site of insertion of the notal - trochantinal muscle .
the process that is small and knob - like or round .
the verricule that arises from a tubercle .
sensilla trichodea type i occur on the distal ends  [  . . . ]  of the antennal flagellum .
the aporous sensillum that has a hairlike cuticular component .
the depression that is medially raised and bears medially a seta .
the abscissa that extends anteriorly from the stigmal vein .
the area that is located distomedially on the end of the telotarsus and articulates with pretarsal claws .
the sclerite that corresponds to the site of insertion of the flexor of the pretarsus .
the area that is located dorsally of the ventral margin of the antennal rim and ventrally of the anterior ocellus medial to the inner margins of the eye and malar line .
the carina that traverses the subdorsal mesopleuron .
the ridge that is vertical and extends along the valviceps .
the area that is the distal part of the penisvalva dorsally of the ergot .
the spine that is located on the paravalva .
the area that is located proximally of the ergot on the penisvalva .
the area that is delimited by the vannal veins ,  or veins that articulates with the third axillary sclerite .
the duct that connect the testis with the vas ejaculatory duct .
the flange that is transparent ,  and extends along the anterodistal margin of the galeo - lacinial complex distal to the lacinial lobe .
the apodeme that is located anterolaterally on the prophragma and corresponds to the site of origin of the third mesopleuro - mesonotal muscle .
the area that extends between the ventral ends of the netrion on opposite sides of the pronotum .
the carina that is located on the border of the metepisternal depression and the metacoxal depression .
the hypopharyngeal muscle that is unpaired and arises from the median anterior part of the tentorial bridge and inserts on the proximal part of the ventral wall of the cibarium or on the proximal margin of the sitophore ,  immediately distally to the point where the alimentary canal passes between the lateral arms of the sitophore .
the edge that sets off the ventral vertical lobe of the propleuron from the ventral propleural area .
the ridge that extends ventrally on the posterior part of the tentorial arm .
the area that is more heavily sclerotised than surrounding areas ,  traverse the mesopostnotum ,  unites laterally with the dorsal mesopostnotal flange ,  continuous laterally with the laterophragma and ventrally  ( posteriorly )  with the mesophragma .
the ridge that is located ventrally on the metafurcal arm .
the area that is located on the metapleuron anteroventrally of the metapleural sulcus .
the pharyngeal muscle that arises from the dorsal surface of the tentorial bridge and inserts ventrally on the pharyngeal wall .
the muscle that arises anteriorly from the cranium and inserts on the posterior margin of the prementum .
the ridge that is located ventrally on the profurcal arm and corresponds to the site of origin of the profurco - procoxal muscle .
the postoccipital muscle that arises partly from the anterior surface of the dorsal profurcal lamella ventral to the site of origin of the dorsal profurco - postoccipital muscle and partly from the median area of the dorsal profurcal lamella .
the pit that is located ventrally on the pronotum .
the area that is located ventrally on the propleuron and is delimited laterally by the longitudinal carina of the propleuron .
the carina that separates the metasomal depression from the metacoxal depression .
the ridge that arises medially from the pleurostomal condyle and corresponds to the site of attachment of the labrum .
the row that is composed of spines and is located ventrally on the apex of the calcar .
the salivarial muscle that arises from the proximal end of the ventral part of the prementum and inserts on the salivarial sclerite .
the area that is limited dorsally  ( anteriorly )  by the ventral edge of the propleuron .
the cupulo - gonostyle / volsella complex muscle that inserts ventrolaterally on the gonostyle / volsella complex between the site of insertion of the ventromedial and dorsolateral cupulo - gonostyle / volsella complex muscles .
the cupulo - gonostyle / volsella complex muscle that inserts medially on the ventral region of the gonostyle / volsella complex .
the setiferous patch that is composed of closely gathered setae .
the area that is delimited by the intersection of the margin of the compound eyes ,  the interorbital plane ,  and the anatomical line that is tangential to the point on the margin of the anterior ocellus which defines the minimum distance between the anterior ocellus and the oral foramen .
the setiferous patch that is located on the vertex .
the inflection that extends along the posterolateral margin of the mesoscutellum and articulates with the dorsal propodeal inflection .
the inflection that extends ventrally along the anterolateral margin of the mesoscutum .
the anatomical space that functions as storage of spermatozoa .
the anatomical space that is located dorsally of abdominal sternum 7 when the latter extends beyond the abdominal sternum 8 .
the area that is covered with dense setae and is located posterior to the metapleural spiracle .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the sclerites on the ventral part of the male genitalia that are not connected to the cupula via muscles .
the area that is located on the parossiculus ventromedially of the cuspis .
the ridge that is located on the parossiculus ,  originates from the gonossiculo - parossicular articulation and extends towards the proximal margin of the parossiculus .
the anatomical space that corresponds to the opening of the vagina .
the evaporatorium that is located medially on the acrotergite of abdominal tergite 7 .
the appendage that is between the notum and the pectus and is connected to the body by the axillary sclerite muscles .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the pteralia ,  humeral complex ,  tegula and axillary cord .
the wing membrane that is delimited by wing veins .
the line along which the wing is creased .
the area that is not vein and not sclerotised .
the area that is delimited by flexion and fold lines on the wing .
the area that is linear and sclerotised and acts as support for the wing membrane .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of abscissae .
the axillular line that is an impression .
mushroom - shaped sensory structure on the flagellum ,  particularly theclava ;  sometimes called the sensilla ampullacea .
the muscle that is located in the head .
the anatomical cluster composed of the second valvifer and the third valvula .
the anatomical cluster composed of the second valvifer ,  second valvula ,  and third valvula .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the first valvifer and the first valvula .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the rhachis of the second valvula and the aulax of the first valvula .
the ridge that extends ventrally of the posterior tentorial pit and that is continuous with the tentorium .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the profurca .
the basitarsus that is located on the protarsus .
the area of the second valvifer - second vavula - third valvifer complex that bears the rhachis .
the head muscle that inserts on the pharynx .
the head muscle that inserts on the postocciput .
the head muscle that inserts on the dorsal wall of the salivarium or the salivarial sclerite .
the leg muscle that inserts on the mesotrochanter .
the head muscle that inserts on the hypopharyngeal wall .
the leg muscle that inserts on the procoxa .
the head muscle that inserts on the maxilla .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the anterior thoracic spiracle .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the laterocervicalia .
the muscle that inserts in the thorax .
the muscle that inserts on the abdomen .
the muscle that inserts on the leg .
the tibial spur that is located on the mesotibia .
the tibial spur that is located on the metatibia .
the coxa that is located on the fore leg .
the trochanter that is located on the fore leg .
the femur that is located on the fore leg .
the tarsus that is located on the fore leg .
the tarsomere that is distal to and connected to the probasitarsus .
the tarsomere that is distal to and connected to the second tarsomere of the fore leg .
the tarsomere that is distal to and connected to the third tarsomere of the fore leg .
the tarsomere that is distal to the fouth tarsomere of the fore leg .
the trochanter that is located on the mid leg .
the femur that is located on the mid leg .
the tarsus that is located on the mid leg .
the basitarsus that is located in the mid leg .
the tarsomere that is distal to and connected to the first tarsomere of the mid leg .
the tarsomere that is distal to and connected to the second tarsomere of the hind leg .
the tarsomere that is distal to and connected to the second tarsomere of the mid leg .
the tarsomere that is distal to and connected to the third tarsomere of the mid leg .
the tarsomere that is distal to the fourth tarsomere of the mid leg .
the trochanter that is located on the hind leg .
the femur that is located on the hind leg .
the tarsus that is located in the hind leg .
the basitarsus that is located on the hind leg .
the tarsomere that is distal to and connected to the first tarsomere of the hind leg .
the tarsomere that is distal to and connected to the third tarsomere of the hind leg .
the tarsomere that is distal to the fourth tarsomere of the hind leg .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of two sclerites connected by at least one articulation and the articular membrane located connecting the two sclerite .
the mediotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 3 .
the flagellomere that is proximally attached to the pedicel .
the laterotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 8 .
the mediotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 2 .
the mediotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 4 .
the mediotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 5 .
the mediotergite that is located on the abdominal tergum 6 .
the anatomical space that is surrounded by the posterior margin of abdominal sternum 7 .
the area that corresponds with the site of origin of the third mesopleuro - mesonotal and first mesopleuro - third axillary sclerite of fore wing muscle .
the area that is located anteriorly of the antecosta on the tergum .
the row of setae that is adjacent to notaulus .
the area that is located posteromedially on the propodeum anterior to the propodeal foramen .
the line that is sublateral ,  and extends between the medial end of the mesoscutellar arm and the scutoscutellar suture .
the axillary region that is located on the fore wing base .
the area that is located lateral to the mesoscutellar disc and is delimited posterolaterally by the mesoscutellar arm and anterolaterally by the scutoscutellar sulcus .
the carina that connects the posterior margin of the metapleuron with the lateral propodeal carina .
the depression that is located anteroventrally on the vertical part of the metapectus .
the antennal muscle that arises dorsally on the anterior part of the anterior tentorial arm and inserts anterolaterally  ( ventrolaterally )  on the proximal part of the scape .
the stipito - palpal muscle that arises medially on the proximal part of the stipes and inserts anteroproximally on the first maxillary sclerite .
the ovipositor muscle that arises from the anterodorsal part of the second valvifer and inserts subapically on the processus articulares .
the area that is located anteriorly on the mesoscutellum and is delimited posteriorly by a the frenal line .
the pronoto - laterocervical muscle that arises lateral to the site of origin of the pronoto - postoccipital muscle and inserts on the cervical apodeme .
the mesonoto - metanotal muscle that arises from the mesoscutum .
the area that is delimited by the proximal ,  distal and lateral margins of the sclerites on the anteroproximal part of the glossa .
the flange that extends along the anterolateral margin of female t9 .
the muscle that inserts on the antenna .
the pleurite that extends ventrally of the lateral margin of the tergum and dorsally of the coxopleurite .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the strongly sclerotised areas corresponding with the annuli and less strongly sclerotised areas situated between them .
the articulation that is part of the second valvifer - second valvula - third valvula complex and adjacent to the rhachis .
the impression that arises just medially of the anterior tentorial pit and extends distomedially on the clypus delimiting laterally a triangular ,  convex area of the clypeus .
the projection that is located along the medial margin of the parossiculus .
the row of setae that extends along the ventral margin of the probasitarsus .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of longitudinal rows of spurs extending along the tarsomeres of the protarsus and are continuous with the row of spur of the preceeding and / or subsequent tarsomeres .
the anatomical cluster that is formed from the tarsal claw and the apical tarsomere ,  and is grasping in function .
the projection that is located on the distal margin of the clypeus .
the flagellomere that is located in the clava .
the carina that is longitudinal and is located on the clypeus .
the sulcus that corresponds to the clypeo - pleurostomal line .
the area that is located posteriorly on the second abdominal tergum and is delimited anteriorly by an impression .
the process that is located on the annulus .
the area that is located distally of the wing base .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises ventrally from the protibia and inserts ventrally on the articular membrane of the protibio - probasitarsal joint .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises anteriorly from the tibia and inserts ventrally on the proximal margin of the metabasitarsus .
the metapleuro - third axillary sclerite of hind wing muscle that arises ventrolaterally from the metapectus .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises ventrally from the mesotibia and inserts ventrally on the articular membrane of the mesotibio - mesobasitarsal joint .
the unguitractor plate that is located on the protarsus .
the unguitractor plate that is located in the metatarsus .
the unguitractor plate that is located in the mesotarsus .
the anatomical structure that is located on the flagellomere ,  elongate ,  convex and its width is at least one fifth of the diameter of the flagellomere .
the fossa that is located laterally on the proximal margin of the profemur accommodating the femoral articular process of the protrochanter .
the fossa that is located laterally on the metafemur and accommodates the femoral articular process of the metatrochanter .
the fossa thet is located laterally on the proximal margin of the mesofemur .
the carina that delimits posteriorly the metepisternal depression .
the line of separation that extends along the transscutal line .
the line  that is longitudinal ,  extends ventrolaterally on the mesopleuron and corresponds with the site of origin of the second and third mesopleuro - third axillary sclerite of fore wing muscle and the second mesopleuro - mesonotal muscle .
the tibial fossa of the femur that is located on the protibia .
the fossa that is located distally on the femur and accommodates the femoral condyle of the tibia .
the condyle that is located on the tibial articular process of the probasitarsus and inserts into the basitarsal fossa of the protibia .
the condyle that is located on the tibial articular process of the metabasitarsus and inserts into the basitarsal fossa of the metatibia .
the condyle that is located on the tibial articular process of the mesobasitarsus .
the articular process that is located dorsally on the proximal margin of the probasitarsus and bears the tibial condyle of the probasitarsus .
the articular process that is located dorsally on the proximal margin of the metabasitarsus and bears the tibial condyle of the metabasitarsus .
the articular process that is located dorsally on the proximal margin of the mesobasitarsus and bears the tibial condyle of the mesobasitarsus .
the fore wing third axillary muscle that originates posterolaterally from the mesopleuron .
the abdominal muscle that inserts on the abdominal tergum .
the metacoxal muscle that arises from the metanotum .
the area that is located on the epicnemial carina anteriorly of the site of origin of the omaulus .
the area that is located between the oral and the occipital foramina .
the projection that is located on the distal half of the tarsal claw and proximal to the apex .
the carina that corresponds with the mesepimeral inflection and delimits the subalar area .
the anatomical cluster that is composed by transverse rows of setae on the median  ( posterior ,  inner )  surface of the metabasitarsus .
the abdominal muscle that inserts on the abdominal sternum .
the area that is heavily pigmented ,  raised and located proximally on the harpe .
the muscle that inserts to the spiracle .
the tooth located proximal to the apical tooth of the mandible .
the tooth located proximal to tooth number 2 .
the tooth located proximal to tooth number 3 .
the area that is located posteriorly of the scutoscutellar suture .
the area that is located medially on the mesoscutellum ,  flat and surrounds the scutellar midpit .
the process that is located laterally  ( dorsally )  on the proximal margin of the protibia and corresponds to the site of insertion of the lateral profemoro - protibial muscle .
the process that is located laterally  ( dorsally )  on the proximal margin of the metatibia and corresponds to the site of insertion of the lateral metafemoro - metatibial muscle .
the process that is located laterally  ( dorsally )  on the proximal margin of the mesotibia and corresponds to the site of insertion of the lateral mesofemoro - mesotibial muscle .
the apodeme that extends along the proximo - median margin of the profemur and corresponds to the site of insertion of the protrochantero - profemoral muscle .
the apodeme that extends along the proximomedian margin of the mesofemur and corresponds the site of insertion of the mesotrochantero - mesofemoral muscle .
the condyle that is located on the proximal articular process of the tarsomere and inserts into the distal fossa of the preceeding sclerite .
the articular process that is located proximodorsally on the tarsomere and bears the proximal condyle of the tarsomere .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises anteriorly from the wall of the protrochanter and inserts on the proximal profemoral apodeme .
the monocondylic joint that is composed of the protrochanter and profemur .
the articulation that is composed of the femoral condyle of the protrochanter and the trochanteral fossa of the profemur .
the condyle that is located on the femoral articular process of the protrochanter and inserts into the trochanteral fossa of the profemur .
the sclerite that is located medially on the proximal margin of the protrochanter and corresponds to the site of origin of the median procoxo - protrochanteral muscle .
the trochantellus that is located on the profemur .
the monocondylic joint that is composed of the protibia and the probasitarsus .
the articulation that is composed of the basitarsal fossa of the protibia and the tibial condyle of the probasitarsus .
the flexor of the pretarsal claws of the fore leg muscle that arises from the protibia .
the telotarsus that is located on the protarsus .
the area that is located dorsomedially on the metapectal - propodeal complex .
the articular process that is located posteromedially on the proximal margin of the metafemur and bears the trochanteral condyle of the metafemur .
the condyle that is located on the trochanteral articular process of the metafemur .
the articulation that is composed of the basitarsal fossa of the mesotibia and the tibial condyle of the mesobasitarsus .
the monocondylic joint that is composed of the mesotibia ,  the mesobasitarsus and the articular membrane of the mesotibio - mesobasitarsal joint .
the flexor of the pretarsal claws of the middle leg muscle that arises from the mesotibia .
the sclerite that is located on the proximomedial margin of the mesotrochanter and corresponds to the site of insertion of the mesocoxo - mesotrochanteral muscles .
the articulation that is composed of the femoral condyle of the mesotrochanter and the trochanteral fossa of the mesofemur .
the condyle that is located on the femoral articular process of the mesotrochanter and inserts into the trochanteral fossa of the mesofemur .
the monocondylic joint that is composed of the mesotrochanter ,  the mesofemur and the articular membrane of the mesotrochantero - mesofemoral joint .
the conjunctiva that is located between two articulating sclerite .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises anteriorly from the wall of the mesotrochanter and inserts on the proximal mesofemoral apodeme .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the mesotrochantin .
the basicoxite that is located on the metacoxa .
the coxal foramen that is on the metapectus .
the dicondylic joint that is composed of the metacoxa ,  the metatrochanter and the articular membrane of the metacoxo - metatrochanteral joint .
the femoro - tibial joint that is composed of the metafemur ,  the metatibia and the articular membrane of the metafemoro - metatibial joint .
the flexor of the pretarsal claws of the hind leg muscle that arises from the metafemur .
the dicondylic joint that is composed of the metapectus ,  the metacoxa and the articular membrane of the metapecto - metacoxal joint .
the condyle that is located on the propodeal tooth and inserts into the anterolateral depression of the propodeum .
the telotarsus that is located on the metatarsus .
the articulation that is composed of the basitarsal fossa of the metatibia and the tibial condyle of the metabasitarsus .
the monocondylic joint that is composed of the metatibia ,  the metabasitarsus and the articular membrane of the metatibio - metabasitarsal joint .
the flexor of the pretarsal claws of the hind leg muscle that arises from the metatibia .
the sclerite that is located on the proximolateral margin of the metatrochanter and corresponds to the site of insertion of the median metacoxo - metatrochanteral muscle .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises anteriorly from the wall of the metatrochanter and inserts on the proximal metafemoral apodeme .
the dicondylic joint that is composed of the metatrochanter ,  the metafemur and the articular membrane of the metatrochantero - metafemoral joint .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises posteriorly from the mesotibia and inserts on the posterior proximal process of the mesobasitarsus .
the tergal muscle that inserts on female t9 .
the condyle that is located distally on the cervical prominence and inserts into the propleural fossa of the cranium .
the apodeme that corresponds to the site of origin of anterior thoracic spiracle occlusor muscle .
the first abdominal tergal spiracle muscle that extends between the dorsal and ventral spiracular apodemes .
the articular process that bears the propleural fossa of the cranium .
the carina that arises ventrolaterally from of the epicnemial carina and extends dorsally towards the pronotal lobe .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of all abdominal segments posterior to abdominal segment 3 .
the abdominal muscle that inserts on the ovipositor .
the seta that is located apically on the gonstyle .
the joint that is composed of the pectus ,  the coxa and the articular membrane of the pecto - coxal joint .
the carina that delimits the pleurostoma from the cranium .
the condyle that is located on the posterior trochanteral articular process of the mesocoxa and inserts into the posterior coxal fossa of the mesotrochanter .
the fossa that is located posteriorly on the proximal margin of the metatrochanter and accommodates the posterior trochanteral condyle of the metacoxa .
the condyle that is located on the posterior trochanteral articular process of the metacoxa and inserts into the posterior coxal fossa of the metatrochanter .
the fossa that is located posteriorly on the proximal margin of the protrochanter accommodating the posterior trochanteral condyle of the procoxa .
the condyle that is located the posterior trochanteral articular process of the procoxa and inserts into the posterior coxal fossa of the protrochanter .
the articulation that is composed of the posterior tibial condyle and fossa of the femur and the posterior femoral condyle and fossa of the tibia .
the articulation that is composed of the posterior trochanteral condyle of the mesocoxa and the posterior coxal fossa of the mesotrochanter .
the mesotrochanteral muscle that arises posteriorly from the mesocoxa and inserts posteriorly on the mesotrochanter laterally of the posterior mesocoxo - mesotrochanteral articulation .
the mesonoto - metanotal muscle that arises from the mesoscutellum .
the articulation that is composed of the posterior trochanteral condyle of the metacoxa and the posterior coxal fossa of the metatrochanter .
the abdominal muscle that inserts on the propodeum .
the protrochanteral muscle that originates from the propleural arm and inserts on the protrochanteral apodeme .
the fore wing third axillary muscle that arises from the pronotum .
the monocondylic joint that is composed of the propectus ,  the procoxa and the articular membrane of the propecto - procoxal joint .
the projection that is located submedially on the distal margin of the hypopygium .
the protrochanteral muscle that arises from the profurca and inserts on the protrochanteral apodeme .
the furcasternum that is located in the prothorax .
the femoro - tibial joint that is composed of the profemur ,  protibia and the articular membrane of the profemoro - protibial joint .
the flexor of the pretarsal claws of the fore leg muscle that arises from the profemur .
the cuticle that containes chitin fibrils and is located between the schmidt's layer and the epicuticle .
the dicondylic joint that is composed of the procoxa ,  the protrochanter and the articular membrane of the procoxo - protrochanteral joint .
the coxal foramen that is located on the propectus .
the scrobe that is located medially on the hypostoma and accommodates the proboscis .
the basisternum that is located in the propectus .
the basicoxite that is located on the procoxa .
the pretarsus that is located in the protarsus .
the pretarsus that is located in the metatasrus .
the pretarsus that is located on the mesotarsus .
the procoxal muscle that arises from the prepectus .
the area that is limited posteriorly by the omaulus and ventromedially by the epicnemium .
the carina that corresponds to the transepisternal line .
the area that is convave and extends along the distal margin of the scape and is delimited proximally by a carina .
the fossa that is located anteroventrally on the posterior supraalar area and accommodate the posterior condyle of the first axillary sclerite of the hind wing .
the metapleuro - metanotal muscle that arises posterolaterally from the metapleuron .
the metatrochanteral muscle that arises posteriorly from the coxa and inserts on the articular membrane of the metacoxo - metatrochanteral joint laterally of the posterior metacoxo - metatrochanteral articulation .
the articular process that is located posteriorly on the distal margin of the procoxa and inserts into the posterior coxal fossa of the protrochanter .
the articular process that is located posteriorly on the distal margin of the metacoxa and bears the posterior trochanteral condyle of the metacoxa .
the articular process that is located posteriorly on the distal margin of the mesocoxa bears the posterior trochanteral condyle of the mesocoxa .
the posterior femoro - tibial articulation that is composed of the posterior tibial condyle and fossa of the metafemur and the posterior femoral condyle and fossa of the metatibia .
the articulation that is composed of the posterior trochanteral condyle of the procoxa and the posterior coxal fossa of the protrochanter .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises posteriorly from the metatibia and inserts on the posterior proximal process of the metabasitarsus .
the protrochanteral muscle that arises posteriorly form the procoxa and inserts on the proximal margin of the protrochanter just laterally of the posterior coxal fossa of the protrochanter .
the posterior femoro - tibial articulation that is composed of the posterior tibial condyle and fossa of the profemur and the posterior femoral condyle and fossa of the protibia .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises posteriorly from the protibia and inserts on the posterior proximal process of the probasitarsus .
the process that is located posteriorly on the proximal margin of the mesobasitarsus and corresponds to the site of insertion of the posterior mesotibio - mesobasitarsal muscle .
the process that is located posteriorly on the proximal margin of the metabasitarsus and corresponds to the site of insertion of the posterior metatibio - metabasitarsal muscle .
the process that is located posteriorly on the proximal margin of the probasitarsus and corresponds to the site of insertion of the posterior protibio - probasitarsal muscle .
the carina that transverse and is located anterior to the antecostal sulcus on the abdominal sternum 3 .
the row of spurs that extends along the distal margin of the metatibia .
the apodeme that extends between the site of origin of the tentorial bridge and the posterior tentorial pit .
the metapleuro - metabasalar muscle that arises posterior to the paracoxal ridge .
the row of setae that is composed of elongate setae and used to manipulate foreign substrates .
the ammochaetae that is located on the ventral  ( anterior )  surface of the head .
the posterior femoro - tibial articulation that is composed of the posterior tibial condyle and fossa of the mesofemur and the posterior femoral condyle and fossa of the mesotibia .
the fossa that is located posteriorly on the proximal margin of the mesotrochanter accommodating the posterior trochanteral condyle of the mesocoxa .
the abdominal tergum that is located in the metasoma .
the abdominal sternum that is located in the metasoma .
the tibia that is located on the mid leg .
the telotarsus that is located on the mid leg .
the apodeme that is located lateroventrally on the mesolaterophragma and corresponds to the site of insertion of the mesofurco - mesolaterophragmal muscles .
the metanotal muscle that arises from the mesopleuron .
the sulcus that corresponds to the mesopleural ridge .
the pleural ridge that marks the ventral margin of the site of origin of the second mesopleuro - mesonotal and the dorsal margin of the mesopleuro - mesocoxal muscles and is located anteroventrally of the speculum .
the pit that corresponds with the mesopleural apodeme .
the apodeme that corresponds to the site of origin of the second mesopleuro - mesonotal and the mesopleuro - mesocoxal muscles .
the dicondylic joint that is composed of the mesopectus and the mesocoxa .
the mesotrochantinal muscle that originates from the mesonotum .
the thoracic muscle that arises from the mesolaterophragma and inserts on the hind wing base .
the profurcal muscle that arises from the mesofurca .
the metafurcal muscle that arises from the mesofurca .
the flexor of the pretarsal claws of the middle leg muscle that arises from the mesofemur .
the femoro - tibial joint that is composed of the mesofemur and the mesotibia .
the dicondylic joint that is compossed of the mesocoxa and the mesotrochanter .
the basicoxite that is located on the mesocoxa .
the propleuro - postoccipital muscle that arises medially from the propleuron .
the pronoto - procoxal muscle that arises from the ventral bridge of the pronotum .
the protrochanteral muscle that arises medially from the procoxa and inserts on the protrochanteral apodeme .
the articulation that is composed of the femoral fossa of the metatrochanter and the trochanteral condyle of the metafemur .
the metapleuro - metanotal muscle that arises ventromedially from the metapectus .
the metatrochanteral muscle that originates medially from the coxa and inserts on the metatrochanteral apodeme .
the mesophragmo - metaphragmal muscle that inserts medially on the metaphragma .
the mesofurco - metafurcal muscle that inserts medioventrally on the metafurca .
the mesotrochanteral muscle that arises posteromedially from the mesocoxa and inserts on the mesotrochanteral apodeme .
the carina that delimits medially the metepisternal depression .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises medially from the profemur and inserts on the genuflexor plate of the fore leg .
the medial pectal fossa of the coxa that is located medially on the proximal margin of the metacoxa and accommodates the medial coxal condyle of the metapectus .
the medial pectal fossa of the coxa that is located medially on the proximal margin of the mesocoxa and accommodates the medial coxal condyle of the mesopectus .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises medially  ( ventrally )  of the hind femur and inserts on the genuflexor plate of the hind leg .
the articulation that is composed of the medial coxal condyle of the mesopectus and the medial pectal fossa of the mesocoxa .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises medially  ( ventrally )  from the mesofemur and inserts on the genuflexor plate of the mid leg .
the medial coxal condyle of the pectus that is located on the medial coxal articular process of the metapectus and inserts into the medial metapectal fossa of the metacoxa .
the medial coxal condyle that is located on the medial coxal articular process of the mesopectus and inserts into the medial pectal fossa of the mesocoxa .
the articulation that is composed of the medial coxal condyle of the metapectus and the medial pectal fossa of the metacoxa .
the articular process that is located on the ventral margin of the metapectus medially of the metacoxal foramen and bears the medial coxal condyle of the metapectus .
the articular process that is located on the ventral margin of the mesopectus medially of the mesocoxal foramen and bears the medial coxal condyle of the mesopectus .
the fossa that is located anteriorly on the proximolateral edge of the mandible and accommodates the pleurostomal coondyle .
the abdominal muscle that inserts on the male genitalia .
the area that extends between the lower  ( anterior )  eye margin and the anterolateral margin of the cranium ,  and its width is delimited by the width of the mandible .
the groove that extends between the compound eye and the base of the mandible .
the line that extends along the margins of two sclerites where they are connected to each other by conjunctiva .
the articulation that is composed of the lateral coxal condyle of the propleuron and the lateral pectal articular fossa of the procoxa .
the propleuro - postoccipital muscle that arises laterally from the propleuron .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises laterally  ( dorsally )   from the profemur and inserts laterally  ( dorsally )  on the dorsal process of the protibia .
the depression that is located immediately above the base of the mandible on the side of the head .
the lateral pectal fossa of the coxa that is located laterally on the probasicoxite and accommodates the lateral coxal condyle of the propleuron .
the lateral pectal fossa of the coxa that is located laterally on the proximal margin of the metacoxa and accommodates the lateral coxal articular process of the metapleuron .
the the lateral pectal fossa of the coxa that is located laterally on the proximal margin of the mesocoxa and accommodates the lateral coxal condyle of the mesopleuron .
the projection that is located anteriorly on the lateral longitudinal metepisternal carina .
the articulation that is composed of the femoral articular process of the metatrochanter and the trochanteral fossa of the metafemur .
the articulation that is composed of the lateral coxal condyle of the metapleuron and the lateral pectal fossa of the metacoxa .
the metapleuro - metabasalar muscle that arises from the metabasalar apodeme .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises laterally from the metafemur and inserts on the dorsal process of the metatibia .
the articulation that is composed of the lateral coxal condyle of the mesopleuron and the lateral pectal fossa of the mesocoxa .
the mesophragmo - metaphragmal muscle that inserts laterally on the metaphragma .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises laterally  ( dorsally )  of the mesofemur and inserts on the dorsal process of the mesotibia .
the mesotrochanteral muscle that arises laterally from the mesocoxa and inserts anteriorly on the trochanter anterolaterally of the posterior mesocoxo - mesotrochanteral articulation .
the carina that delimits laterally the metepisternal depression .
the lateral coxal condyle of the pleuron that is located distally on the  lateral coxal articular process of the propleuron and inserts into the lateral pectal fossa of the procoxa .
the lateral coxal condyle of the pleuron that is located on the lateral coxal articular process of the metapleuron and inserts into the lateral pectal fossa of the metacoxa .
the lateral coxal condyle of the pleuron that is located on the lateral coxal articular process of the mesopleuron and inserts into the lateral mesopectal fossa of the mesocoxa .
the articular process that is located on the lateroventral margin of the metapectus and bears the lateral coxal condyle of the metapleuron .
the anatomical line that is the distance from the posteroventral corner of the metapleuron to the anteriormost part of the mesoscutum ,  measured in lateral view .
the abdominal spiracle that is located in the abdominal segment 3 .
the abdominal spiracle that is located in the abdominal segment 5 .
the abdominal spiracle that is located in the abdominal segment 6 .
the abdominal spiracle that is located in the abdominal segment 7 .
the abdominal spiracle that is located in the abdominal segment 8 .
the laterotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 1 .
the spiracle that has attachment for both an occlusor and a dilator muscle .
the sternum that is located on the abdominal segment .
the tergum that is located in the abdomen .
the projection that is located sublaterally on the distal margin of the hypopygium .
the condyle that is located on the antennifer and inserts into the basal knob .
the fossa that accommodates the antennal condyle of the cranium .
the articular process that bears the antennal condyle of the cranium .
the scrobe that is located dorsally of the antennal foramen and is for the reception of the antenna .
the fossa that is located on the anterior coxal articular process of the mesotrochanter and accommodates the anterior trochanteral condyle of the mesocoxa .
the articular process that is located anteriorly on the proximal margin of the mesotrochanter and bears the anterior coxal fossa of the mesotrochanter .
the articular process that is located anteriorly on the distal margin of the metatibia and bears the basitarsal articular fossa of the metatibia .
the articulation that is composed of the anterior tibial condyle and fossa of the femur and the anterior femoral condyle and fossa of the tibia .
the mesotrochanteral muscle that arises anteriorly from the mesocoxa and inserts on the mesotrochanteral apodeme .
the anterior femoro - tibial articulation that is composed of the anterior tibial condyle and fossa of the mesofemur and the anterior femoral condyle and fossa of the mesotibia .
the apodeme that is located anteromedially on the lateral mesofurcal arm and corresponds to the site of origin of the mesofurco - profurcal muscle .
the mesonoto - mesotrochanteral muscle that arises from the mesonotum anterior to the site of origin of the posterior mesonoto - mesotrochanteral muscle when present and inserts on the mesotrochanteral apodeme .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises anteriorly from the mesotibia and inserts on the anterior proximal process of the mesobasitarsus .
the articulation that is composed of the anterior trochanteral articular process of the metacoxa and the anterior coxal fossa of the metatrochanter .
the anterior femoro - tibial articulation that is composed of the anterior tibial articular process and fossa of the metafemur and anterior femoral articular process and fossa of the metatibia .
the fossa that is located laterally on the metanotum and accommodates the anterior condyle of the first axillary sclerite of the hind wing .
the metapleuro - metabasalar muscle that arises anteriorly of the paracoxal ridge .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises anteriorly from the metatibia and inserts on the anterior proximal process of the metabasitarsus .
the articulation that is composed of the anterior trochanteral condyle of the procoxa and the anterior coxal fossa of the protrochanter .
the protrochanteral muscle that arises anteriorly from the procoxa and inserts on the proximal margin of the protrochanter just lateral of the anterior coxal fossa of the protrochanter .
the anterior femoro - tibial articulation that is composed of the anterior tibial condyle and fossa of the profemur and the anterior femoral condyle and fossa of the protibia .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises anteriorly from the protibia and inserts on the anterior proximal process of the probasitarsus .
the process that is located anteriorly on the proximal margin of the mesobasitarsus and corresponds to the site of insertion of the anterior mesotibio - mesobasitarsal muscle .
the process that is located anteriorly on the proximal margin of the metabasitarsus and corresponds to the site of insertion of the anterior metatibio - metabasitarsal muscle .
the process that is located anteriorly on the proximal margin of the probasitarsus and corresponds to the site of insertion of the anterior protibio - probasitarsal muscle .
the apodeme that extends between the anterior tentorial pit and the tentorial bridge .
the laterotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 2 .
the laterotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 3 .
the laterotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 4 .
the laterotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 5 .
the laterotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 10 .
the laterotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 6 .
the laterotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 7 .
the laterotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 9 .
the mediotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 1 .
the articular process that is located ventrolaterally on the mesopleuron and bears the lateral coxal condyle of the mesopleuron .
the mediotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 10 .
the leg muscle that inserts and originates in the leg .
the monocondylic joint that is composed of two tarsomeres .
the mediotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 7 .
the mediotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 8 .
the mediotergite that is located on abdominal tergum 9 .
the spiracular muscle that arises from the lateral sternal apodeme of the abdominal sternum 5 and inserts on the 5th abdominal spiracle .
the spiracular muscle that arises from the lateral sternal apodeme of the abdominal sternum 4 and inserts on the 4th abdominal spiracle .
the spiracular muscle that arises from the lateral sternal apodeme of the abdominal sternum 3 and inserts on the 3rd abdominal spiracle .
the spiracular muscle that arises laterally from the abdominal sternum 2 and inserts on the 2nd abdominal spiracle .
the projection that is located posteriorly on the subalar area and accommodate the posterior end of the second axillary sclerite of the fore wing at the beginning of the upstroke of the wing .
the articular process that is located distodorsally on the protibia and bears the basitarsal fossa of the protiba .
the fossa that is located on the basitarsal articular process of the metatibia and accommodates the tibial condyle of the metabasitarsus .
the articular process that is located distodorsally on the mesotibia and bears the basitarsal fossa of the protiba .
the fossa that is located on the basitarsal articular process of the mesotibia and accommodates the tibial condyle of the mesobasitarsus .
the apodeme that is located submedially on the anterior part of dorsal axillar surface and corresponds to the site of origin of the anterior mesonoto - mesotrochanteral muscle .
the area that is located laterally  ( dorsally ,  externally )  on the proximal margin of the metabasitarsus and accommodates the rastellum .
the spiracular muscle that arises from the lateral spiracular apodeme of the abdominal sternum 6 and inserts on the 6th abdominal spiracle .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the auricle and the rastellum .
the area that is located on the sclerite and that makes movable direct contact with another sclerite .
the articular membrane that is located in the protibio - probasitarsal joint .
the articular membrane that is located in the metacoxo - metatrochanteral joint .
the sclerite that encircles ventrolaterally the proximal part of the arolium .
the inflection that extends along the anteroventral margin of the mesoscutum and supports the dorsal pronotal inflection .
the area that is located anterior to the transscutal articulation .
the lateral metapleuro - metanotal muscle that arises anterolaterally from the metapectus .
the metatrochanteral muscle that arises anteriorly from the metacoxa and inserts on the articular membrane of the metacoxo - metatrochanteral joint laterally of the anterior metacoxo - metatrochanteral articulation .
the inflection that extends along the anterior margin of the mesopectus and articulates with the posterior pronotal inflection .
the fossa that is located anteriorly on the distal margin of the mesocoxa accommodating the anterior coxal condyle of the mesotrochanter .
the articular process that is located anteriorly on the distal margin of the procoxa and bears the anterior trochanteral condyle of the procoxa .
the condyle that is located on the anterior trochanteral articular process of the procoxa and inserts on the anterior coxal fossa of the protrochanter .
the articular process that is located anteriorly on the distal margin of the metacoxa and bears the anterior trochanteral condyle of the metacoxa .
the condyle that is located on the anterior trochanteral articular process of the mesocoxa .
the articulation that is composed of the anterior coxal fossa of the mesotrochanter and the anterior trochanteral condyle of the mesocoxa .
the fossa that is located anteriorly on the proximal margin of the protrochanter accommodating the anterior trochanteral condyle of the procoxa .
the fossa that is located anteriorly on the metatrochanter and accommodates the anterior trochanteral condyle of the metacoxa .
the condyle that is located on the anterior trochanteral articular process of the metacoxa and inserts into the anterior coxal fossa of the metacoxa .
the spiracular muscle that arises from the lateral sternal apodeme of the abdominal sternum 7 and inserts on the 7th abdominal spiracle .
the spiracular muscle that arises anteroventrally from the tergal spiracular plate and inserts on the 8th abdominal spiracle .
the first abdominal tergal spiracle muscle that does not extend between the dorsal and ventral spiraclar apodeme but attaches to one of these apodemes .
the fossa that is located distodorsally on the tarsomere and accommodates the proximal condyle of the subsequent tarsomere .
the metapleuro - third axillary sclerite of hind wing muscle that arises dorsolaterally from the mesopleuron dorsally of the vantral metapleuro - third axillary sclerite of hind wing muscle .
the row of impressions that is located on the anteroventral edge of the mesopleuron and is correspond to the site of origin of the mesopleuro - mesobasalar muscle .
the line that extends between the anterior tentorial pits .
the articular process that is located laterally on the distal margin of the mesotrochanter and bears the femoral condyle of the mesotrochanter .
the articular process that is located laterally on the distal margin of the metatrochanter and bears the femoral condyle of the metatrochanter .
the articular process that is located laterally on the distal margin of the protrochanter and bears the femoral condyle of the metatrochanter .
the femoral condyle of the tibia that is located on the protibia .
the condyle that is located proximally on the tibia and inserts into the tibial fossa of the femur .
the fossa that is located posteromedially on the metatrochanter and accommodates the trochanteral condyle of the metafemur .
the dicondylic joint that is composed of the femur and the tibia .
the fore wing third axillary muscle that arises anterodorsally from the mesopleuron .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises from the profemoro - protibial joint and inserts on the unguitractor plate of the protarsus .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises from the metafemoro - metatibial joint and inserts on the unguitractor plate of the metatarsus .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises from the mesofemoro - mesotibial joint and inserts on the unguitractor plate of the mesotarsus .
the area that is located posteriorly on the fore wing ,  is ventrally curved and accommodate the hamuli .
the area that is between the epistomal line and the anterior ocellus and limited laterally by the inner margin of compound eye .
the humeral complex that is located on the fore wing .
the line that is located on the sclerite and is impressed .
the genuflexor plate that is located in the mid leg .
the genuflexor plate that is located in the hind leg .
the genuflexor plate that is located in the fore leg .
the sclerite that is located posteriorly along the proximal margin of the tibia and corresponds to the site of insertion of the posterior femoro - tibial muscle .
the sulcus that is transverse and extends just ventrally of the median ocellus and is never connected to the scrobal sulcus or depression or interantennal area .
the abdominal sternum that is located on abdominal segment 8 .
the carina that extends along the lateral margin of the intertorular area  ( median margin of the antennal foramen )  towards the vertex .
the wing blade that is located in the fore wing .
the fossa that is located on the basitarsal articular process of the protibia and accommodate the tibial condyle of the probasitarsus .
the abdominal spiracle that is located in the abdominal segment 4 .
the  articular membrane that is located in the mesotibio - mesobasitarsal joint .
the abdominal spiracle that is located on the abdominal segment 2 .
the sulcus that delimits anteriorly the supraorbital trabecula .
the bar that is adjacent to and parallel with the upper margin of each eye ,  which anteriorly terminates at the juncture of the transverse trabecula and preorbital trabecula .
the depression that is located anteroventrally on the mesopectus anterior of the precoxal carina .
the propleural muscle that originates from the pronotum and inserts on the propleural arm .
the prophragmal muscle that arises laterally of the site of origin of the median pronoto - prophragmal and medially of the site of origin of the lateral pronoto - postoccipital muscles .
the prophragmal muscle that arises medially of the site of origin of the lateral pronoto - prophragmal muscle .
an organ system pertaining to fat .
the muscle that is attached to the dorsal vessel .
a hard shell external to the vitelline membrane of the egg .
the area that is located proximally on the notal membrane near the processus articularis is sclerotised and is continuous with the second valvulae .
the head muscle that inserts on the labrum .
the tendon that connects the fronto - labral muscle with the lateral margin of the labrum .
the head muscle that inserts on the labium .
the anatomical cluster that consists of the distal part of the femur and the proximal part of the tibia .
the propleural muscle that arises from the propleuron .
the metapleural muscle that arises from the metapleuron .
the mesopleural muscle that arises from the mesopleuron .
the male genitalia muscle that arises from the proximal margin of the lateral surface of the harpe and inserts proximally on the median surface of the harpe .
the maxillar muscle that connects two maxillary sclerites .
the articulation between the first valvifer and second valvifer .
the area that is defined by the anatomical lines that are tangent to a point at the minimal distance from the eyes to the lateral ocelli .
the anatomical line that is the shortest between the compound eyes on the vertex .
the anatomical line that is the longest horizontal diameter  ( major axis )  of the oral foramen .
the ridge that extends along the posterior margin of the first valvifer between the intervalvifer and tergovalvifer articulations .
the pouch that is situated on the hypopharyngeal wall distally of the sitophore .
the spine that is located laterally on the anterior margin of the pronotum .
the lobe that is situated distally of the sitophore and proximally of the infrabuccal pouch .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the third axillary sclerite of the hind wing .
the wing base that is located in the hind wing .
the carina that is the vertical section of the epomial carina that begins ventrally and terminates at the junction of the transverse pronotal carina and the lateral epomia .
the ovipositor muscle that arises along the posterodorsal part of the anterior margin of female t9 and inserts on the anterior section of the dorsal flanges of the second valvifer .
the lobe that is situated distally on the maxilla and the labium medially of the palps .
the abdominal muscle that arises from the anteromedian margin of female t8 and inserts on the anteromedian margin of the female t9 .
the area that surrounds the scutellar plate and differs from it in sculpture .
the conjunctiva that extends dorsally of the salivarial sclerite between the distal boundary of the salivary duct and the salivary orifice .
the projection that is located apically on the gonossiculus .
the area that is located on the anterior surface of the hypopharyngeal wall and is delimited proximally by the infrabuccal pouch or the distal margin of the sitophore ,  distally by the salivarial orifice and laterally by the lateral parts of the prementum and the hypopharyngeal rods .
the foramen that is located proximally on the cupula .
the flange that extends on the dorsal margin of the second valvifer .
the pronoto - procoxal muscle that arises dorsomedially from the pronotum .
the region that extends along the dorsal margin of the first valvula and bears the aulax .
the organ system involved in the absorption of nutrients .
the metabasalar muscle that arises from the metacoxa .
the mesobasalar muscle that arises from the mesocoxa .
collective name for all the nerve centers and their connective in the insect's body .
the anatomical system that is involved in circulation .
the apodeme on the anterior margin of female t9 .
the anatomical structure that is linear .
the evagination that is mostly membranous .
the area that corresponds to the site of origin of the mesopleuro - mesosubalar muscle .
the syntergum that is located posteriorly of the petiole .
the malar distance that is a carina .
the pleurite that extends ventrally of the anapleurite and dorsally of the coxa .
the maxillar muscle that arises medially from the occiput dorsally of the occipital foramen and inserts on the proximolateral part of the cardo .
the maxillar muscle that arises from the occiput and inserts on the proximal part of the lacinial lobe .
the spiracular muscle that arises form the mesopectus and inserts on the posterior thoracic spiracle .
the setiferous patch that extends posteriorly or posterolaterally of the median ocellus .
the sulcus that is horizontal and extends between the compound eye and the lateral ocellus .
the sulcus that extends along the median margin of the preorbital trabecula .
the impression that arises laterally from the antennal rim and extends along the inner margin of the compound eye .
a division of the whole organism into specialized systems .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the ovipositor ,  abdominal terga 8 - 10 ,  abdominal sternum 7 and muscles connecting them .
the edge that extends laterally of the pleurostoma .
the row of setae that extends along the parapsidal line .
the carina that extends along the parapsidal line .
the impression that extends along the parapsidal line .
the carina that extends along the lateral margin of the paraspiracular sulcus .
the articular surface that is situated on the anteriorly on the ventral margin of the second valvifer and forms the lateral part of the basal articulation .
the acrosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 3 .
the acrosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 4 .
the acrosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 2 .
the acrosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 5 .
the acrosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 6 .
the acrosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 7 .
the acrosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 8 .
the acrosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 9 .
the pronoto - procoxal muscle that originates anteroventrally from the pronotum and inserts posterolaterally on the procoxa .
the ovipositor muscle that arises from the lateral region of female t9 and inserts along the posterior part of the dorsal flange of the second valvifer .
the carina that is located ventrally on the scape and sensory in function .
the area that is located between the left and right coxal foramina .
the sclerite that articulates on the first valvula and projects into the egg / poison canal .
the area that corresponds to the site of origin of the mesopleuro - mesobasalar ,  second and third mesopleuro - third axillary sclerite of fore wing and second mesopleuro - mesonotal muscles .
the area that is extends along the extreme posterior margin of the mesopleuron anterior to mesocoxa and is delimited anteriorly by an impression .
the impression that delimits anteriorly the transverse trabecula .
the sulcus that extends along the transscutal line .
the sulcus that extends between the eyes posterior to the vertexal sulcus .
the sulcus that separates the upper mesepimeron from the lower mesepimeron .
the line that corresponds to the ventral margin of the site of origin of the anterior mesopleuro - mesofurcal muscle .
the frenal line that is a carina .
the frenal line that is a sulcus .
the mesobasalar muscle that arises from the mesotrochanter .
the process that is located on the proximolateral corner of the labrum .
the third axillary sclerite that is located on the metathorax .
the third axillary sclerite that is located on the mesothorax .
the spine that is located apically on the last clavomere .
a groove that is longitudinal and extends laterally on the petiole separating a dorsal and a ventral petiolar areas .
the articulation that is located between the female t9 and the first valvifer and is composed of the ninth tergal condyle of the first valvifer and the first valviferal fossa of the ninth tergite .
the mandibular muscle arises ventrolaterally from the anterior part of the anterior tentorial arm and inserts dorsomedially on the proximal part of mandible .
the maxillary muscle that arises from the anterior region of the cranium and inserts adjacent to the cardino - stipital hinge .
the ovipositor muscle that arises from the cordate apodeme and inserts dorsally on the proximal part of the genital membrane and on the opposite cordate apodeme .
the ovipositor muscle that originates from the lateral part of female t8 and inserts on the dorsal margin of the first valvifer .
the metacoxal muscle that arises laterally from the metanotum ,  anterior to the site of origin of the posterior metanoto - metacoxal muscle .
the metabasalar muscle that arises from the metanotum .
the mesolaterophragmal muscle that arises from the mesonotum .
the mesocoxal muscle that arises from the mesonotum and inserts on the posterior margin of the mesocoxa .
the mesobasalar muscle that arises from the mesonotum .
the gland that is situated ventrally of the salivarium and empties into the salivarium .
the area that is located ventrally on the mesopectus between the mesocoxal depression and the epicnemial carina .
the process that is located anteroventrally on the petiole .
the area that is located between the malar sulcus and preorbital suture .
the carina that extends from the ventral margin of the spiracular groove to the anterior margin of the metapectal - propodeal complex .
the line that is lobgitudinal and is located  closer to the midline than to the lateral margin of the mesoscutellum .
the carina that is longitudinal and extends closer to the midline than to the lateral margin of the propodeum .
the sternite that is located medially on an abdominal sternum .
the row of setae that is located laterally at the base of the glossa .
the sclerite that is connected to the distal end of the third valvula via conjunctiva .
the area that is articulated with the right and left second valvifers at the basal articulation and bears the rhachises .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the plectrum and the stridulitrum .
the maxillar muscle that arises along the lateral margin of the posterior stipital sclerite and inserts proximally on the median wall of the stipes just proximal to the lacinal lobe .
the maxillar muscle that arises from the posterior sclerite of the stipes medial to the site of origin of the stipito - lacinial muscle and inserts on the median wall of the galeo - lacinial complex distal to the stipito - lacinial muscle .
the pleurite that located medially of the coxa and laterally of the sternum .
the area that is located between the epicnemial carina and the anterior margin of the femoral depression .
the profurcal muscle that arises form the prospinasternum .
the sulcus that is longitudinal and extends posteriorly of the first abdominal spiracle .
the impression that extends dorsally on the metapectal - propodeal complex from its anterior margin to the first abdominal spiracle .
the muscle that originates from the abdominal sternum 7 and inserts on the first valvula .
the row of setae that is located on the fore wing .
the notch that is located on the margin of sawtooth .
the patch that is composed of placoid sensilla adjacent to the intervalvifer articulation .
the ovipositor muscle that arises anteriorly from the dorsal flange of the second valvifer and inserts anteriorly on the dorsal part of the genital membrane .
the second axillary sclerite  that is located on the mesothorax .
the abdominal muscle that inserts on the second abdominal tergum .
the abdominal muscle that inserts on the second abdominal sternum .
the area that is located on the alinotum and is situated anterior to the scutoscutellar suture .
the process that is located just medially of the margin of the scutellar plate .
the area that is concave is located medially on the scutellar plate and corresponds to the opening of an exocrine gland .
the sulcus that extends dorsomedially from the upper median margin of the antennal rim .
the area that is set off from the lateral area of the mesoscutum by the anteriorly extended dorsal axillar area .
the process that is located along the ventral margin of the first valvula or the dorsal margin of the second valvula .
the sclerite that is located in the ventral wall of the salivarium and corresponds to the site of insertion of the ventral premento - salivarial muscle .
the second abdominal sternal muscle that arises from the metadiscrimenal lamella .
the metacoxal muscle that arises from the second abdominal sternum .
the row that is composed of spurs .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of rod - like sensilla and is located apically on the distal labial palp segment .
the process that is located on the funicular segment .
the area that is located on the lateral wall of the first and second valvulae and is without annuli .
the pteralia that is located on the fore wing .
the projection that is located ventrally on the malar space .
the leg muscle that inserts on the protrochanter .
the row of spurs that extends along the apical margin of the fore tibia .
the spinasternum that is located anterior to the mesopectus .
the spine on the metapectal - propodeal complex that is paired and is medial to the propodeal spiracle .
the area on the propodeum that is median and is delimited laterally by the median longitudinal carina .
the muscle that inserts on the propleuron .
the propleural muscle that arises form the mesofurca .
the muscle that inserts on the prophragma .
the area that is delimted by two pronotal ridges laterally and the posterior margin of the pronotum anteriorly .
the carina that delimits the pronotal plate posterolaterally .
the apodeme that extends dorsally from the proximal part of the second valvula to the genital membrane and receives  the site of attachment of the posterior second valvifer - second valvula muscle .
the process that extends laterally from the proximal part of the second valvula and forms the median part of the basal articulation ,  and corresponds to the site of attachment for the anterior second valvifer - second valvula muscle .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the mesopleuron .
the pleural sulcus that is located on the mesopleuron .
the anterior thoracic spiracle occlusor muscle that originates from the mesopleuron and inserts on the mesothoracic spiracle .
the spinasternum that is located between the mesopectus and metapectus .
the row of spurs that extends laterally along the tarsomere of the mesotarsus .
the area that is located ventrally of the mesopectus and limited dorsally by any line .
the row of spurs that extends along the distal margin of the mesotibia .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the metabasalare .
the leg muscle that inserts on the metacoxa .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the metafurca .
the area that is located laterally on the metaphragma .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the metalaterophragma .
the carina that is transverse and is located on the metascutellum .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the metanotum .
the metatrochantinal muscle that arises form the metanotum .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the metaphragma .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the metapleuron .
the spiracle that is located on the metasoma .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the metasubalare .
the leg muscle that inserts on the metatrochanter .
the trochantin that is located in the metathorax .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the metatrochantin .
the edge that is located on the cranium along the oral foramen .
the projection that is median and is located anteriorly on the propodeum .
the multiporous plate sensillum that is gustatory in function .
the multiporous plate sensillum that is olfactory in function .
the patch that is elevated ,  located on the flagellomere and is multiporous .
the organ system that is composed of neurons and glial cells .
the conjunctiva that connects the medial margins of the second valvulae .
the area that is located anteriorly on the petiole ,  delimited posteriorly by constriction and bears the propodeal fossa of the petiole .
the area that is located anteriorly on the second metasomal sternum and overlaps ventrally the petiole .
the laterocervical muscle that arises from the prophragma .
the metabasalar muscle that arises from the metalaterophragma .
the metafurcal muscle that arises from the metalaterophragma .
the area that is anterior on the foregut and that is situated posterior to the cibarium .
the anatomical space that is located proximal to the cibarium .
the postoccipital muscle that arises posterodorsally from the propleuron .
the fore wing third axillary muscle that arises anteroventrally from the mesopleuron .
the mesosubalare muscle that arises from the mesopleuron .
the metafurcal muscle that arises anteriorly of the site of origin of the posterior metapleuro - metafurcal muscle .
the metafurcal muscle that arises posteriorly of the site of origin of the anterior metapleuro - metafurcal muscle .
the ovipositor muscle that arises from the posterior part of the first valvifer and inserts anteriorly on the genital membrane anetrior to the t9 - genital membrane muscle .
the wing base that is located in the mesothorax .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the third axillary sclerite of the fore wing .
the venation of the fore wing .
the mesofurco - metafurcal muscle that inserts on the anterior metafurcal arm .
the metafurco - metacoxal muscle that arises laterally from the metafurca .
the metafurco - metacoxal muscle that originates medially from the metafurca .
the flagellomere that is located in the funicle .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the ovipositor and the distalmost abdominal tergum or the ovipositor and the distalmost abdominal tergum and the preceeding abdominal tergum .
the carina that extends on the gena from the lateral margin of the oral foramen .
the area that is located between the genal carina and the posterior margin of the compound eye ,  bounded ventrally by the malar sulcus and dorsally by the vertex .
the conjunctiva that connects the ventral margins of the second valvifers arching above the second valvula .
the procoxal muscle that arises from along the dorsal profurcal lamella .
the process that is setiferous and is located on the ventral margin of the second valvula and corresponds with one of the subdivisions of the second valvula .
the setiferous patch that extends along the second metasomal tergum .
the area that is located on the lateral wall of the first and second valvulae and is subdivided by annuli .
the area that is located medially on the transverse pronotal sulcus and separates the pronotal plate from the anterior rim of pronotum .
the ridge that is paired ,  vertical and extends submedially on the frons .
the cuticle that does not contain chitin fibrils and is located externally of the exocuticle .
the setiferous patch that is unpaired ,  sublateral and situated distally on the epipharyngeal wall on the left torma .
the head muscle that inserts on the epipharyngeal wall .
the margin that delimits the clypeus distally  ( ventrally or anteriorly depending on the orientation of the head )  .
the anatomical cluster that composed of the median oviduct ,  spermatheca and the ovipositor apparatus .
the muscle that arises from the tentorium and inserts proximally on the scape .
the anatomical cluster that composed of carinae radiating from the pleurostomal condyle .
the spiracular muscle that inserts on the first abdominal tergal spiracle .
the first axillary sclerite that articulates anteriorly and medially with the anterior notal wing process laterally with the second axillary sclerite ,  and posteriorly with the posterior notal wing process .
the bar that extends along the inner orbit and terminates dorsally at the juncture of the transverse trabecula and supraorbital trabecula .
the prophragmal muscle that arises from the profurca .
the antennal muscle that arises posteromedially on the proximal part of the scape and inserts laterally on the proximal part of the pedicel .
the ninth abdominal tergal muscle that arises from the anterolateral margin of female t8 and inserts on the anterolateral margin of female t9 .
the antennal muscle that arises laterally from the proximal parts of the dorsal and anterior tentorial arms and is inserted posterolaterally on the proximal part of the scape .
the process that is located posterodorsally on the axillular carina .
the head muscle that inserts on the mandible .
the area that connects posterodorsally the second valvifers and is the site of attachment for the posterior t9 - second valvifer muscle .
the carina that is the median mesoscutal line .
the antennal muscle that arises anterolaterally on the scape and inserts medially on the proximal part of the pedicel .
the area that is located medially on the tergum and is separated laterally by a line from the laterotergite .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the mesobasalare .
the coxal foramen that is on the mesopectus .
the leg muscle that inserts on the mesocoxa .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the mesofurca .
the area that is well sclerotised ,  composes the lateral part of the mesophragma and is continuous with the dorsal and ventral mesopostnotal flanges ,  is connected distally with the subalare and ventrally bears the mesopostnotal apodeme .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the mesolaterophragma .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the mesonotum .
the intersegmental membrane that is located between the mesopectus and the pronotum .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the mesophragma .
the second abdominal sternal muscle that arises from the metapleuron .
the propodeal muscle that arises from the metapleuron .
the area that is located proximoventrally on the mandible ,  is projected posteriorly and bears posteroventrally oriented rows of spines .
the area that extends along the posterior margin of the mesoscutellum and is delimited anteriorly by the posterior mesoscutellar sulcus .
the ridge that is unpaired ,  vertical ,  is located in the dorsoventral midline of the frons and corresponds to the site of origin of the posterior fronto - labral muscles .
the antennal muscle that arises anteriorly from the anterior tentorial arm anteromedially of the site of origin of the anterior tentorio - scapal muscle and inserts medially on the proximal part of the scape .
the projection that is located distomedially on the parossiculus and is continuous with the volsellar ridge .
the carina that delimits the spiracular furrow medially .
the anterior thoracic spiracle occlusor muscle that originates from the prepectus and inserts on the mesothoracic spiracle .
the area that is horizontal and located ventrally on the prepectus .
the carina that divides the prepectus for the vertical lateral portion and the horizontal ,  ventral prepectal shelf .
the mesobasalar muscle that arises from the prepectus .
the postoccipital muscle that arises from the propleural arm .
the procoxal muscle that originates from the propleural arm .
the area that is located on the conjunctiva and invaginated .
the area that is located medially on the dorsellum and bears the metanotal flange .
the rim that surrounds the occipital foramen .
the sulcus that extends between the malar sulcus and the occipital foramen .
the antennal muscle that arises medially from the proximal parts of the dorsal and anterior tentorial arms and is inserted posteriorly  ( dorsally )  on the proximal part of the scape .
the ovipositor muscle that arises medially from the posterodorsal part of female t9 and inserts on the median bridge of the second valvifers .
the stipito - palpal muscle that arises medially on the proximal part of the stipes and inserts posteroproximally on the first maxillary palpal segment .
the ovipositor muscle that arises posteroventrally from the second valvifer and inserts on the processus musculares of the second valvula .
the area that is posterior and set of from the mesoscutellum by a transverse line .
the pronoto - laterocervical muscle that originates from the pronotum posterior to the anterior pronoto - laterocervical muscle and inserts on the laterocervical apodeme .
the paired process that is located posteriorly on the dorsal surface of the mesoscutellum .
the metacoxal muscle that arises from the metanotum posterior to the site of origin of the anterior metanoto - metacoxal muscle .
the flange that is located on the frontal carina and obscures the antennal foramen .
the area that is located between the epistomal sulcus and the frontal line  .
the line that delimits dorsally the scrobal depression .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the vertex and the dorsal area of the upper face dorsal to the frontofacial ridge .
the bar that extends between each eye ventral  ( anterior )  to the anterior ocellus and dorsal  ( posterior )  to the antennal formamina and laterally terminates at the juncture of the supraorbital trabecula and preorbital trabecula .
the area that is located laterally of the propodeal spiracle and is delimited anterolaterally by the metapleural sulcus .
the area that is located arond the anal opening posterior to the epipygium and hypopygium .
the thoracic muscle that inserts on the mesosubalare .
the mediosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 2 .
the mediosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 3 .
the mediosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 4 .
the mediosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 5 .
the mediosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 6 .
the mediosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 7 .
the mediosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 8 .
the mediosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 9 .
the mediosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 10 .
the sternite that is located laterally on an abdominal sternum .
the laterosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 2 .
the laterosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 3 .
the laterosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 5 .
the laterosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 6 .
the laterosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 7 .
the laterosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 8 .
the laterosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 9 .
the laterosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 10 .
the laterosternite that is located on abdominal sternum 4 .
the area that is limited laterally by the antennal scrobes .
the sulcus that is transverse ,  located on the upper face and medially joining or intersecting the scrobal sulcus and interantennal area .
the projection that is located submedially on the proximal margin of the pronotal rim .
the apodeme that is located submedially just ventrally of the dorsal margin of the pronotum and corresponds to the site of origin of the pronoto - propleural muscle .
the sulcus that corresponds to the metaphragma .
the area that is median and is delimited anteriorly by the metascutellar arms and the metascutelum .
the sclerite that is paired ,  is located distal to the manubrium and is connected laterally with the arcus .
the area that is median and projecting posteriorly .
the carina that delimits posteriorly the subaxillular bar .
the trochantellus that is located on the mid femur .
the trochantellus that is located on the metafemur .
the axillary cord that is located on the hind wing .
the axillary cord that is located on the fore wing .
the tarsomere that is distal to the fourth tarsomere .
the tarsomere that is distal to and connected to the third tarsomere .
the sclerite that is part of the palp .
the tarsomere that is distal to the basitarsus and proximal to the third tarsomere .
the tarsomere that is distal to and connected to the second tarsomere .
the muscle that arises laterally from the metapleuron and iserts on the muscle bearing process of the metanotum .
the carina that transversely crosses abdominal mediotergite 3 posterior to the antecostal sulcus .
the tergite that is located on the abdominal segment 9
the tergite that is located on the abdominal tergum 10 .
the sternite that is located on the abdominal sternum 8 .
the groove that is longitudinal and is immediately posterior or postero - medial to the first abdominal spiracle .
the area that is located anterior to the antecostal sulcus of the first abdominal tergum .
the carina that is located in the anteroposterior median line of the first metasomal sternum .
the carina that is located in the nteroposterior median lineof the metasomal tergum .
the impression that is located in the anteroposterior median line of the mesoscutellum .
the carina that is longitudinal and sublateral .
the carina that traverse the second abdominal sternum and separates a anterior vertical and a posterior horizontal petiolar area .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to the first flagellomere .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to the ninth flagellomere .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to the fourth flagellomere .
the edge that traverses the upper face between the antennal foramen and the median ocellus separating a more horizontal dorsal and a more vertical ventral area .
the carina that extends from the lateral metacoxal articulation and is continuous with the anterior margin of the speculum .
the area that is part of the metapectal - propodeal complex and is located ventral of the metapleural carina and dorsal of the transmetapectal carina .
the area that is composed of file - like ridges on the upper surface of the anterior tergum of abdominal segment 4 .
the abdominal sternum that is located on abdominal segment 10 .
the muscle that arises from the profurca and inserts on the procoxa .
the muscle that arises from the profurca and inserts on the postocciput .
the evaporatorium that is located on the sex segment .
the muscle that arises from the mesonotum and inserts on the mesotrochanter .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to the second flagellomere .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to the third flagellomere .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to the fifth flagellomere .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to the sixth flagellomere .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to the seventh flagellomere .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to the eighth flagellomere .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to the tenth flagellomere .
the ridge that corresponds with the notaulus .
the area that extends along the posterior margin of the mesoscutellum between the axillary level and the mesoscutellar disc ,  enclosing the anatomical space connecting the axillary level with the pulsatory organ of the fore wing .
the ridge that delimits anteriorly the acropleuron .
the rim that extends along the propodeal foramen .
the area that connects distally the lateral profurcal arms .
the apodeme that is located dorsally on the anterior margin of the metapectal - propodeal complex and corresponds to the site of origin of the metapleuro - third axillary sclerite of the hind wing muscle .
the inflection that extends along the dorsal margin of the prepectus .
the inflection that extends along the posterior margin of the prepectus .
the anatomical space that is located between the hypoproct and the epiproct and is continuous with the alimentary canal .
the carina that delimits the anterior vertical area of t2 from the posterior horizontal area .
the anatomical line that is the longest among lines extending between the anterior and posterior margins of the mesoscutum .
the fossa that is located laterally on the proximal margin of the coxa and accommodates the lateral coxal condyle of the pectus .
the condyle that is located distally on the lateral coxal articular process of the pleuron and inserts into the lateral pectal fossa of the coxa .
the fossa that is located on the coxa and accommodates the coxal condyle of the pleuron .
the pectal fossa of the coxa that accommodates the median coxal condyle of the pleuron .
the condyle that is located on the pectus and inserts into the pectal fossa of the coxa .
the coxal condyle of the pectus that inserts into the medial pectal fossa of the coxa .
the sclerite that is connected anterolaterally and anteroventrally with the pronotum and anterodorsally with the mesoscutellum and the mesopostnotum .
the muscle that is attached at either end to the cuticle .
the muscle that is attached to the alimentary canal .
the area that is evaginated .
the tarsal claw that is located in the fore leg .
the tarsal claw that is located in the mid leg .
the tarsal claw that is located in the hind leg .
the area that is located anteroventrally on the lateral axillar area ,  accommodates the ventral part of the posterior extension of the preaxilla and bears the postmedian notal wing process .
the frontal line that is a carina .
the carina that is transverse and connects the metapleural carinae .
the scrobe that is located ventrally of the propodeal foramen and accommodates the gaster .
the carina that delimits laterally the gastral scrobe .
the area that is delimited dorsally by the antennal scrobes .
the multiporous plate sensillum that is elongate .
the area that is located anterior to the claval furrow .
the anatomical line that is perpendicular to the anteroposterior body axis and extends between the medial margins of the compound eyes .
the articulation that is composed of the mandibular acetabulum and the pleurostomal condyle .
the area that is located posteriorly of the transverse carina of the petiole .
the spur that is located at the anterior edge of the metatibia .
the flange that is located just laterally of the first abdominal spiracle .
the carina that encompasses a horizontal ,  median ,  rounded area of the mesoscutellar disc .
the area that is concave and is located between and ventral of the antennal foramina .
the setiferous patch that is extending along the third metasomal tergum .
the line of separation that is located between consecutive abdominal terga .
the carina that extends lateroventrally on the mesopleuron between the lateral end of the epicnemium and the lateral margin of the mesocoxal foramen .
the carina that is longitudinal and extends between the anterior and posterior margins of the mesoscutellar - axillar complex .
the carina that extends along the posterior surface of the metatibia between the distal and proximal ends of the metatibia .
the carina that extends medially on the lower face .
the median mesoscutal line that is an impression .
the groove that corresponds to the transepisternal line .
the spine that is located on the anterior face of the metafemur .
the impression that is located at the anteroventral corner of the metapleuron .
the flange that is located medially on the dorsal margin of the pronotum and overlaps the anterior part of the mesoscutum .
the area that is raised and  extends from between the antennal foramina to the posterior margin of the clypeus .
the impression with a centered seta .
the setal pit that is located at the posterior margin of abdominal tergum 8 .
the spine that is located posteromedially on the mesoscutellum .
the carina that extends transversely across the scutellar plate ,  anterior to glandular release pit .
the carina that is median and extends ventrally along the petiole .
the margin of the cranium that is dorsal in frontal view .
the sensillum whose cuticular component is without any opening .
the campaniform sensilla that is paired and is located submedially on the mesoscutellum .
the anatomical space that corresponds to the distal end of an exocrine gland .
the setiferous patch that is located posteromedially on the mesoscutellum .
the projection that is located submedially on the anterior margin of the propodeum .
the abdominal segment that is located in the metasoma .
the carina that is located on the lower face ventrally of the antennal foramen and dorsally of the clypeus .
the tooth that is located apically on the external margin of the mandible .
the aporous sensillum with a flat or dome - shaped ,  circular cuticular component that is delimited by a shallow depression .
the projection that is paired and is located submedially on the ventral margin of the ventral rim of clypeus .
the corner that is located ventrolaterally on the ventral rim of clypeus .
the projection that is located proximally on the anterior edge of the mandible .
the margin that delimits the wing anteriorly .
the fossa that accommodates the base of the labial palp .
a 3d region in space without well - defined compartmental boundaries ;  for example ,  the dorsal region of an ectoderm .
the area of the metapectal - propodeal complex that is located medially of the plicae and anteriorly of the propodeal foramen .
the setae that are paired and are located laterally on the ventral rim of clypeus .
the setiferous patch that is located just anteriorly of the anterior thoracic spiracle .
the projection that is located proximally on the external surface of the mandible distomedially of the mandibular condyle .
the pilosity that is located on the gena .
the area that is located laterally on the occipital carina .
the area that is limited medially by the dorsal end of the epomial carina .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of setae .
the carina that extends along the posterior margin of the compound eye .
the felt field that is located on the abdominal sternum 3 .
the felt field that is located on the abdominal sternum 4 .
the flange that is located on the ventral edge of the mandible ,  arises from the mandibular condyle and is pointed distally .
the sulcus that corresponds to the transepisternal line .
the sternite that is located anteriorly on the second abdominal sternum
the carina that is longitudinal ,  arises posteriorly from the petiolar collar and extends dorsolaterally on the abdominal tergum 2 medially of the dorsope and the second abdominal spiracle .
the carina that extends laterally on the abdominal tergum 2 from the petiolar collar to the second abdominal spiracle laterally of the dorsope .
the aporous sensillum whose cuticular component is an apically rounded ,  hair - like structure ,  which is in a depression below the surface of the surrounding cuticle .
the spiracle that is located on the gaster .
the tergite that is located on the gaster .
the sternite that is located on the abdominal segment 3 .
the tergite that is located on the metasoma .
the notch that is located on the posterodorsal margin of the mesopectus and accommodates the mesothoracic spiracle .
the apodeme that is located on the abdominal sternite and serves as the site of origin of muscles .
the area on the propodeum that is median and is delimited anteriorly and laterally by carinae .
the area that is located anteriorly on the median mesoscutal lobe and is differently angled from the rest of the median mesoscutal lobe .
the area that corresponds to the site of insertion of the metaphragmo - second abdominal tergal muscle .
the carina that is median and extends between the torular space and the epistomal sulcus .
the carina that extends laterally on the mesonotum along the mesoscutal suprahumeral sulcus .
the carina that is lateral ,  longitudinal and arises from the anterior margin of the propodeum and extends towards the petiolar foramen .
the apical tooth of the mandible that is located the most distal to the clypeus .
the sulcus that is limited laterally by the intersection of the frontofacial sulcus and the scrobal sulcus .
the sulcus that is limited medially by the intersection of the frontofacial sulcus and the scrobal sulcus .
the evagination that is located on the posterior margin of the petiole ,  paired and overlaps the anterior region of the first gastral sternite .
the groove that arises from the lateral margin of the postocciput ,  is curved externally and extends towards the posterior articulation of the mandible .
the carina that extends along the lateral margin of the postgenal groove .
the area where the cuticle is invaginated .
the frontal line that is a sulcus .
the strenum that is located in the gaster .
the tergum that is located in the gaster .
the area that is concave and is located ventrally of the level of the anterior thoracic spiracle .
the area that is located anteriorly on mediotergum 1 ,  is raised and contains the proximal part of the retracted ovipositor
the diameter of the median ocellus .
the ridge that delimits posteriorly the pulsatory organ of the mesoscutellum .
the sclerite that is ring - like and is part of the antenna .
the sclerite that is one of a pair of sclerites located apically on the abdomen and bears the cercus .
the seta that is on the cercus .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the sclerites that are located distally of the cupula and surround the aedeagus .
the notch that is located submedially on the proximodorsal margin of the gonostyle / volsella complex and accommodates the gonossiculus when it is pivotted proximodorsally presumably by the contraction of gonosiculal muscles .
the projection that is located distolaterally on the harpe .
the apodeme that is located proximodorsally on the aedeagus and is the site of insertion of the distodorsal gonostyle / volsella complex - penisvalval muscle .
the impression that is located dorsolaterally on the cupula and corresponds to the site of origin of the lateral cupulo - gonostipal muscle .
the male genitalia muscle that arises from the cupula and inserts on the gonostyle / volsella complex .
the apodeme that is median and is oriented proximally .
the conjunctiva that is linear and extends medially on the dorsal region of the gonostyle / volsella complex .
the muscle that arises ventromedially from the gonostyle ,  is proximomedially oriented ,  and inserts on the proximalmost sclerite of the volsella .
the male genitalia muscle that arises proximoventrally from the gonostyle / volsella complex and inserts nearby the gonossiculal articulation .
the male genitalia muscle that arises from the gonostyle / volsella complex and inserts on the harpe .
the male genitalia muscle that arises from the gonostyle / volsella complex and inserts on the penisvalva .
the male genitalia muscle that inserts on the gonossiculus .
the conjunctiva that is linear and extends medially on the ventral region of the gonostyle / volsella complex .
the lobe that is connected to the vas deferens .
the notch that is medially on the proximodorsal margin of the cupula and is delimited laterally by the site of origins of the dorsomedial cupulo - gonostipal muscles .
the notch that is located proximodorsally on the harpe that accommodates the gonossiculus if it is pivoted proximodorsally .
the apodeme that is on the proximomedian margin of the harpe that is the site of insertion of the proximal and distal gonostyle / volsella complex - harpal muscles .
the male genitalia muscle that inserts on the penisvalva .
the penisvalval muscle that arises ventrally from the gonostyle / volsella complex .
the sternite that is connected posteriorly to the cupula via muscles .
the portion of tissue that is produced by the gland cells of the internal male genitalia .
the notch that is on the distoventral margin of the gonostyle / volsella complex laterally of the gonostyle / volsella complex - gonossiculus articulation .
the conjunctiva that is elongate ,  is on the distoventral margin of the gonostyle / volsella complex and delimits laterally the site of origin of the gonostyle / volsella complex - gonossiculus muscle .
the tergite that is connected posteriorly to t9 via conjunctiva and muscles .
the tergite that is connected posteriorly to t9 via muscles .
the abdominal muscle that connects t9 with t10 .
the apodeme that arises distoventrally from the aedeagus and is continuous with the ventromedian conjunctiva of the gonostyle / volsella complex .
the apodeme that corresponds to the site of insertion of the gonostyle / volsella complex - volsellal muscles .
the articulation that is composed of the parossiculal articular surface of the gonossiculus and the gonossiculal articular surface of the parossiculus .
the apodeme that arises distoventrally from the aedeagus and is not continuous with the ventromedian conjunctiva of the gonostyle / volsella complex .
the wing vein that is on the fore wing .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to flagellomere 13 .
the mesotibial spur that is located anteriorly on the distal margin of the mesotibia .
the mesotibial spur that is located posteriorly on the distal margin of the mesotibia .
the tarsomere that is located in the metatarsus .
the area that is medial to the lateral pronotal carina and posterior to the anterior rim of pronotum .
the sclerite that is elongate and extends from the lateral margin of the prementum and the base of the lacinia towards the anteromedial margin of the mandible and the and the proximal margin of the labrum .
the articular process that bears the cardinal condyle of the cranium .
the condyle that is located on the cranium and articulates with the cranial fossa of the cardo .
the process that receives the site of attachment of the cranio - cardinal muscle .
the conjunctiva that is between the stipes and cardo .
the articular process that is located distolaterally on the cardo and articulates with the stipes .
the articular process that is located distomedially on the cardo and articulates with the stipes .
the articulation that is composed of the cardinal condyle of the lorum and the loral fossal of the cardo .
the fossa that is on the cardo and articulates with the cardinal condyle of the lorum .
the condyle that is located on the lorum and articulates with the loral fossa of the cardo .
the carina that is on the cardo .
the cardinal ridge that is median .
the cardinal ridge that arises distally from the basal cardinal ridge and is oriented distolaterally .
the cardinal ridge that arises distally from the basal cardinal ridge and is oriented distomedially .
the area that is limited posterolaterally by the mediodistal and laterodistal cardinal ridges .
the area that is limited laterally by the mediodistal and basal cardinal ridges .
the area that is limited medially by the laterodistal and basal cardinal ridges .
the anatomical space that is located on the distal cardinal cavity .
the articular porcess that bears the cardinal condyle of the stipes and receives the site of attachment of the tentorio - cardinal muscle .
the fossa that articulates with the basistipital process .
the area that lays parallell with the lateral wall of the prementum .
the sclerite that is on the medial stipital wall ,  connected to the lacinial lobe and receives the site of insertion of the stipito - lacinial muscle .
the rim that extends along the anterior  ( dorsal )  margin of the medial stipital wall .
the rim that is continuous proximally with the stipital thickening ,  is located distal to the cardino - stipital hinge and articulates distally with tha basal lacinial sclerite .
the sclerite that is on the medial stipital wall and bears the medial stipital process .
the area that is limited medially by the medial stipital wall and proximolaterally by the margin of the posterior stipital sclerite .
the sclerite that is located on the posterior stipital wall ,  articulates with the cardo and with the labial palp ,  is connected by conjunctiva distolaterally to the galeo - lacinial complex ,  proximally to the hypostoma and the cardo and proximolaterally to the mandible .
the flange that extends along the margin of the posterior stipital wall .
the margin of the posterior stipital sclerite that is concave and accommodates the base of the maxillary palp .
the condyle that articulates with the stipital fossa of the cardo .
the projection that is located distally on the posterior stipital sclerite and encircles the base of the maxillary palp .
the tentorio - stipital muscle that is anterior to the posterior tentorio - stipital muscle .
the tentorio - stipital muscle that is posterior to the anterior tentorio - stipital muscle .
the sclerite that is elongate ,  paired ,  is lateral to the cardo and is articulated with the cardo and with the stipes .
the depression that extends medially and adjacent to the medial portion of the principal carina of stipes .
the diameter of the ocellus .
the ratio of the number of the maxillary sclerites and labial sclerites .
the sclerite that is ringlike and is connected distolaterally to the posterior stipital sclerite via conjunctiva and muscle .
the maxillary muscle that arises from the posterior stipital sclerite and inserts on the first sclerite of the maxillary palp .
the sclerite that is ringlike and is connected distally to the first sclerite of the maxillary palp via conjunctiva and muscle .
the sclerite that is ringlike and is connected distally to the second sclerite of the maxillary palp via conjunctiva .
the sclerite that is ringlike and is connected distally to the third sclerite of the maxillary palp via conjunctiva .
the muscle that arises from the first sclerite of the maxillary palp and inserts on the second sclerite of the maxillary palp .
the muscle that arises from the first sclerite of the maxillary palp and inserts on the third sclerite of the maxillary palp .
the muscle that arises from the second sclerite of the maxillary palp and inserts on the third sclerite of the maxillary palp .
the sclerite that is located on the lateral wall of the lacinial lobe .
the process that corresponds to a single epidermal cell .
the lacinial lobe that is lateral to the inner lobe of the lacinia .
the lacinial lobe that is medial to the outer lobe of the lacinia .
the row of setae that traverses the lacinia along its anterior margin .
the row of setae that traverses the lacinia along its posterior margin .
the row of setae on the lacinial lobe that is marginal .
the conjunctiva that extends along the posterior  ( dorsal )  margin of the premental arm and the proximal margin of the medial stipital wall .
the area of the stipes that is delimited proximomedially by the stipito - premental conjunctiva ,  proximolaterally by the stipito - mandibular conjunctiva and posteroproximally by the margin of the posterior stipital sclerite .
the sclerite that is located on the lateral wall of the galeo - lacinial complex distaly of the lateral galeal crease and bears the distolateral galeal setiferous patch .
the setiferous patch that is located distolaterally on the galeo - lacinial complex .
the setiferous patch that is located on the lateral wall of the galeo - lacinial complex proximally of the distolateral setiferous patch .
the sclerite that is located on the lateral wall of the galeo - lacinial complex and bears the proximolateral galeal setiferous patch .
the conjunctiva that is between the distolateral and proximolateral galeal sclerites .
the galeal fringe that extends along the distal margin of the distal galeal plate .
the row of setae that extends along the margin of the galeo - lacinial complex ,  distal to the lacinial lobe .
the row of setae that is located on the medial wall of the galeo - lacinial complex proximal to the coeloconic sensilla of galea .
the row of setae that is on the distal margin of the proximolateral galeal sclerite .
the lobe that is located medially on the internal wall of the galeo - lacinial complex and margined by the galeal comb .
the carina that extends medially along the medial wall of the galeo - lacinial complex and that is longitudinal .
the area on the lacinial lobe that is covered with acanthae .
the area on the galeo - lacinial complex distal to the lacinial lobe that is covered with acanthae .
the coeloconic sensillum that is located on the medial surface of the galeo - lacinial complex distal to the base of the lacinial lobe .
the sclerite that is located on the medial surface of the galeo - lacinial complex and bears the coeloconic sensillum of galea .
the sclerite that receives the site of insertion of the stipito - galeal muscle .
the area that is limited distally by the posterior margin of the prementum and laterally by the median margins of the cardines and the stipites .
the area that is located between the cardines and limited proximally and distally by the anatomical line that extends between the proximal and distal ends of the left and right cardines .
the area of the postmental area that is limited laterally by the median margins of the stipites ,  proximally by the anterior margin of the intercardinal area and distally by the proximal margin of the prementum .
the region that corresponds to the distal margin of the intercardinal area .
the sclerite on the intercardinal area that is not paired .
the intercardinal sclerite that is connected distally to the prearticular portion of the postmentum .
the interstipital sclerite that is connected proximally to the postarticular portion of the postmentum .
the articular process that bears the postmental articular surface of the prementum .
the area of the prementum ,  that lays parallel and connected via conjunctiva to the medial stipital vall .
the notch that is located distolaterally on the prementum and receives the base of the labial palp .
the area of the prementum that is located between the labial palpal excisions and is limited posteriorly by the anatomical line extending between the proximalmost points of the excisions .
the area of the lateral premental face that receives the site of origin of the dorsal premento - salivarial muscle .
the area of the prementum that is delimited laterally by the lateral premental face .
the flange that is adjacent to the border between the ventral and lateral premental faces and that overlaps externally the median part of the posterior stipital sclerite .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the sclerites that articulate with the ninth abdominal tergite and the second valvifer .
the margin of the first valvifer that is posterior and extends between the intervalvifer articulation and the anterior angle of the first valvifer .
the condyle that is located on the first valvifer and articulates with the first valviferal fossa of t9 .
the fossa of the ninth abdominal tergite that is adjacent to the condyle of the ninth tergal condyle of the first valvifer .
the conjunctiva that traverses the first valvifer and separates the dorsal and ventral sclerites of the first valvifer .
the sclerite of the first valvifer that is located dorsally of the transvalviferal conjunctiva .
the sclerite of the first valvifer that is ventral to the transvalviferal conjunctiva .
the articulation between the dorsal sclerite of the first valvifer and the ventral sclerite of the first valvifer .
the flange that extends anteriorly on the first valvifer and overlaps with the posterior margin of the anterior area of the second valvifer .
the condyle that is located on the first valvifer and articulates with the first valviferal fossa of the second valvifer .
the corner on the first valvifer that marks the posterior end of the first valvula .
the area of the second valvifer which is anterior to the anatomical line that is the shortest distance from the first valviferal fossa of the second valvifer and the ventral margin of the second valvifer .
the area of the second valvifer that is posterior to the anatomical line that is the shortest distance from the first valviferal fossa of the second valvifer to the ventral margin of the second valvifer
the line on the second valvifer that extends between the pars articularis and the dorsal flange of second valvifer .
the projection that is located on the second valvifer and corresponds to the proximal end of the rachis .
the area of the dorsal flange of the second valvifer that is anterior to the site of origin of the basal line .
the area of the dorsal flange of the second valvifer that is posterior to the to the site of origin of the basal line .
the area that is connected to the ninth tergite and the first valvifer via conjunctiva ,  is articulated to the first tergite ,  and bears the aulax .
the gland reservoir that is between the second valvifers .
the anterior area of the dorsal valve that is bulbous .
the notch that is on the anterior region of the dorsal valve and accommodates the ventral ramus of the second valvula and the first valvula .
the notch that is distal on the dorsal valve .
the conjunctiva that traverses the second valvifer - third valvula complex and is located distal to the median bridge of the second valvifer .
the area of the second valvifer - second valvula - third valvula complex that is proximal to the basal articulation .
the ridge that extends along the anterior margin of female t9 and receives the site of origin of the ventral and the dorsal t9 - second valvifer muscles .
the sclerite that is part of the maxillary palp .
the area of muscle attachment .
the sternite that is connected to the first valvula via muscles .
the muscle that arises from the posteroventral parts of the female t9 and inserts on the median bridge .
the tergite that is connected to female t9 by muscles .
the ovipositor muscle that arises from the interarticular ridge of the first valvifer and inserts on the second valvifer .
the area that extends along the dorsal margin of the second valvula ,  bears the processus articularis anteriorly and the processus musculares on the antero - dorsal region and articulates anteriorly with the second valvifer via the basal articulation .
the anatomical space that is between the left and right olistheters .
the conjunctiva that extends medially along the first valvula .
the anatomical line that is parallel with the longitudinal body axis and the shortest among the anatomical line that extends between the anterior and posterior margins of the dorsal projection of the second valvifer .
the sclerite that is ringlike and is connected distolaterally to the prementum via conjunctiva and muscle .
the sclerite that is ringlike and is connected distally to the first sclerite of the labial palp via conjunctiva and muscle .
the sclerite that is ringlike and is connected distally to the second sclerite of the labial palp via conjunctiva and muscle .
the proximal area of the paraglossa that is adjacent to the basiparaglossal brush .
the anteroproximal area of the paraglossa that is covered with long acanthae and corresponds to the ligament connecting the hypopharyngeal button with the basiparaglossal sclerite .
the anteroproximal sclerite of the paraglossa that bears the basiparaglossal brush .
the sclerite that is located medially on the paraglossa and articulates with the anterior glossal plate and is continuous with the hypopharyngeal rod . .
the projection that is located proximolaterally on the anterior glossal plate and articulates with the basiparaglossal sclerite .
the median conjunctiva of the anterior glossal plate that is parallel with the anteroposterior body axis .
the anatomical cluster of the glossa that is composed of connected annular hairs .
the spine on the distal part of ligula that is connected proximolaterally to the neighboring glossal hair by a carina .
the transverse edge that extends distally on the glossa .
the area of the glossa that is between the distal margin of the prementum and the distal glossal edge .
the area of the glossa that is between the distal glossal edge and the anterior glossal plate .
the row of spines that is on the distal glossal edge .
the row of setae of the glossa that is adjacent to the distal glossal edge .
the seta that is on a process .
the campaniform sensillum of the anterior surface of the glossa that is located proximal to the glossal annuli .
the invagination on the distal hypopharynx that id adjacent to the concavities of the hypopharyngeal rods .
the anterolateral area of the distal hypopharynx that is adjacent with the proximal part of the hypopharyngeal rod proximal to the hypopharyngeal button and is covered with acanthae .
the area that extends between anterior margin of the median wall of the stipes and the lateral margin of the posterior wall of the stipes and the base of the mandible and the labrum .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the spines on the distal margin of the distolateral portion of the principal carina of the stipes .
the medial part of the principal carina of the stipes that is overlapped by the premental carina and overlaps the lateral premental face .
the medial part of the principal carina of the stipes that is overlapped distally by the distomedial stipital carina and overlaps the lateral premental face and the proximal part of the prementum .
the fossa that is located on the cardo and articulates with the cardinal condyle of the cranium .
the sclerite that is ringlike and is connected distally to the fourth sclerite of the maxillary palp via conjunctiva .
the sensillum whose cuticular component has one cuticular pore .
the muscle that arises from the third sclerite of the maxillary palp and inserts on the fourth sclerite of the maxillary palp .
the sclerite that is located on the interstipital area and is connected to the prementum via conjunctiva .
the articular surface that articulates with the madial margin of the stipes .
the ridge that is limited laterally by the stipital articular surfaces of the postmentum .
the conjunctiva that is between the postmentum and prementum .
the scrobe of the prementum that is adjacent to and extends lateral to the premental carina and accommodates the medial part of the posterior stipital sclerite .
the sclerite that receives the site of insertions of the dorsal and ventral premento - salivarial muscles and is continuous with the hypopharyngeal rod .
the area that is resilin rich .
the carinae that radiates from the posterior glossal plate towards the apical glossal setae .
the anterior invagination of the labium that is adjacent with the distal end of the salivarium and separates the glossa proximally from the distal hypopharynx and the paraglossae .
the sclerite that is located distally on the paraglossa .
the anatomical cluster of the paraglossa that is composed of connected annular hairs .
the bent area of the hypopharyngeal rod that receives the site of insertion of the posterior tentorio - premental muscle .
the gland that empties anterior to the prementum .
the duct that leads from the salivary gland .
the muscle that arises from the first sclerite of the labial palp and inserts on the second sclerite of the labial palp .
the muscle that arises from the second sclerite of the labial palp and inserts on the third sclerite of the labial palp .
the corner of the first valvifer that is adjacent to the intervalvifer articulation .
the anatomical line that is parallel with the longitudinal body axis and the shortest among the anatomical lines that extend between the anterior and posterior margins of the anterior area of the second valvifer .
the anatomical line that is parallel with the longitudinal body axis and the shortest among the anatomical lines that extend between the anterior and posterior margins of female t9 .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the mandibular teeth .
the campaniform sensillum that is on the ventral premental face .
the concavity on the distal margin of the prementum delimiting medially the site of attachment of the labial palp .
the sclerite that is part of the labial palp .
the styloconic sensillum that is located apically on the glossa .
the apophysis that is located proximomedially on the female s7 .
the conjunctiva that connects the female t8 with female t9 and is tubular .
the tooth tooth that is located on the posterior surface of the lower tooth .
the distance that is the shortest between the compound eye and the anterior tentorial pit and the compound eye .
the anatomical line that is the longest vertical diameter of the compound eye in frontal view .
the scrobe on the mesonotum that accommodates the posterior surface of the cranium .
the carina that delimits laterally the cranial scrobe of the mesoscutum .
the conjunctiva that extends between the metanotum and the metapectal - propodeal complex .
the scrobe that is on the mesopectus and accommodates the profemur .
the setal patch that is elongate ,  is adjacent and extends just lateral to the plica and is composed of posteriorly directed and apressed setae that inserts into the retinaculum when the fore wing is in a flexed position .
the notch that is on the anterior wing margin ,  is adacent to the anterior end of the poststigmal fold line .
the notch on the posterior wing margin that is adjacent to the posterior end of the discal fold .
the median anatomical line that extends between the transverse carina on petiole and the posterior margin of the petiole .
the anatomical line that is the shortest between the anterior tentorial pits .
the projection that is located anterolaterally on the epicnemial carina .
the scrobe that is located ventrally of the propodeal foramen and accommodates the proximal area of the petiole .
the carina that is longitudinal and extends lateroventrally on the abdominal segment 2 .
the conjunctiva of abdominal tergum 9 that is median and longitudinal .
the anatomical line that is the longest horizontal diameter of the cranium in frontal view .
the portion of cuticle that covers externally the cellular components of the ommatidium .
the median anatomical line that extends between the acetabular carina and the medial coxal articulations .
the median anatomical line that extends between the anterior margin of the ventral region of the metapectus and the distal end of the projection bearing the medial coxal condyle of the metapectus .
the anatomical line that extends in the median axis of the organism .
the anatomical line that extends between the proximal and distal margins of an anatomical structure .
the median anatomical line that is the longest between the anterior margin of the head and the propodeal foramen in dorsal view .
the anatomical line that is parallel with the posterior margin of the metapectal - propodeal complex ,  is adjacent to the anterior margin of the mesocoxa and extends between the dorsal and ventral margins of the mesosoma .
the area delimited by the posterior mesoscutellar carina and by the posterior margin of the mesoscutellum .
the carina on the posterior face of the mesoscutellum that is dorsally convex .
the area delimited by the posterolateral mesoscutellar carina and the ventral margin of the mesoscutellum
the carina on the posterodorsal mesoscutellum that is dorsally convex .
the area medially on the anterior rim of the pronotum that is distinctly delineated and its outline directly continuous with the scutellar foveae and the pronotal plate .
the groove along the anteroventral border of the pronotum .
the anatomical space delimited by a notch on the margin of the metapleuron in its anteroventral corner ,  opening towards a depression in the anterior part of the metasubpleuron .
the muscle that arises from the propodeum and inserts laterally on the second abdominal segment .
tha carina that extends externally of the scutellar plate and is parallel to the margin of the scutellar plate .
the carina that extends along the posterior border of the pronotal plate .
the well delineated depressed area that is submedian on the pronotum ,  and is delimited medially by the median bridge of the pronotal plate .
the area that is median and separates the scutellar foveae .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the distal notch on the second valvula and the associated dentition and flexible flap .
the part of the mesoscutellum that protrudes posteriorly as a distinct shape beyond any smooth or straight posterior outline ,  especially when protruding posteriorly past the anterior margin of the metanotum
the area of the pronotal plate that is posterior to the pronotal foveae .
the area of the propodeum that is  delimited dorsally by the calyptra and posteriorly delimited by the lateral propodeal carina .
the anatomical space that is encircled by the lateral bar of the mesoscutellum .
the corner at the intersection of the ventrolateral and posterior margin of the metapleuron .
the line of separation between the pronotum and the mesoscutum .
the line of separation between the pronotum and the mesopectus .
the straight line that extends ventrally on the lateral  ( vertical )  surface of the mesopectus and is oriented anteroposteriorly .
the sensillum with a hair - like cuticular component .
the trichoid sensillum that is apically rounded .
the seta that is located laterally on the clypeus .
the sensillum with a distal ,  volcano - shape cuticular component on the apical - most flagellomere .
the row of sensilla whose cuticular component are flat ,  circular and lack a median peg .
the sensillum coeloconicum ,  in which the diameter of the tip of the hairlike cuticular component is 1 / 3 - 1 / 5 of the diameter of the surrounding depression .
the sensillum coeloconicum ,  in which the diameter of the tip of the hairlike cuticular component is as wide as the surrounding depression .
the anatomical cluster composed of the transaxillar carina ,  axillar carina ,  and axillular carina .
the segment that is metameric along the proximal - distal axis and is part of an appendage .
the anatomical line that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the anatomical structure and between one side of an object to the opposite side .
the anatomical line that connects the global minima of the contour line of the pronotal slope in lateral view when the specimen is rotated until the contour line becames as symmetric as possible and the posteriormost point of the propodeal lobe .
the median anatomical line between the setal line of petiole and the transverse carina of petiole .
the concave area anteriorly on the mesosoma that accommodates the posterior area of the cranium .
the anteriormost setal pit on the dorsal side of the petiole .
the scrobe that is dorsal to the propodeal foramen and accommodates the proximodorsal area of the petiole .
the anatomical line between the posteriormost  ( dorsalmost )  points of compound eyes in frontal view .
the anatomical line that is perpendicular to the median anatomical line and is the tangent at the distalmost point ( s )  of the clypeus in frontal view .
the anatomical line that extends between the distalmost point of the subpetiolar process and the global minima of the contour line of the dorsal region of the posterior petiolar constriction in lateral view when the specimen is rotated until the contour line became as symmetric as possible .
the petiolar area posterior to the posterior petiolar constriction .
the anatomical line between the distal ends of the propodeal spines .
the area of the scape that faces away from the cranial surface in fully caudal scape position .
the area of the scape that faces the cranium surface when the scape is in fully flexed position .
the anatomical line that is tangential to the posteriormost points of the antennal rims .
the transverse torular line that extends between the frontal carinae .
the carina that extends between the ventral  ( anterior )  margin of the antennal foramen to the apical clypeal margin .
the median anatomical line that extends between the posterior margin of the cranium and the distal clypeal line in frontal view .
the longest diameter of the eye .
the anatomical line that is the longest between the dorsal margin of the petiole and the posterior petiolar distance and perpendicular to the posterior petiolar distance .
the anatomical line that is the longest between the ventral margin of the petiole and the dorsal margin of the petiole and is perpendicular to the ventral margin of the petiole in lateral view .
an orientation inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement at an angle .
the angle of the proximodistal axis of the seta to the contour line of the bodypart where the seta is located .
the median anatomical line that extends between the posterior margin of the cranium and the distal margin of the clypeus in frontal view .
the median notch that is on the distal clypeal margin .
the anatomical line that is between the distal clypeal line and the proximalmost point of the distal clypeal notch in frontal view .
the anatomical line that connects the center of the propodeal spiracle with the posteriormost point of the propodeal lobe in lateral view .
the longest width of the pronotum in dorsal view .
the anatomical line that is the shortest between the center of the petiolar spiracle and the posterior margin of the petiole in lateral view .
the anterolateral spine of the dorsal side of the petiolar node .
the anatomical line between the distal ends of the anterodorsal spines of the petiolar node .
the maximum width of the petiole in dorsal view .
the median anatomical line of the cranium that is the longest between the dorsal margin of the cranium and the dorsal head width .
the longest anatomical line that is perpendicular to the posterior margin of the postpetiole in lateral view and is between the posterior postpetiolar margin and the anterior postpetiolar margin .
the maximum width of the postpetiole in dorsal view .
the scrobe on the pronotum that accommodates the posterior surface of the cranium .
the spine that is located at the dorsolateral edge of the cranial scrobe of the pronotum .
the anatomical line between the distal ends of the pronotal spines .
the proximodistal anatomical line of the scapal area that is distal to the radicle .
the shortest anatomical line between the lateral margins of the propodeal spines .
the anatomical line between the center of the propodeal spiracle and the distal end of the propodeal spine .
a  data item that is produced as the output of an averaging data transformation and represents the average value of the input data .
the arithmetic mean of the maximum cephalic length in median line and the dorsal head width .
the rim that is transverse and is at the posterior margin of the anterior profile of petiolar node .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of concentric carinae that encircle the antennal foramen .
the anteriodorsal area of the petiolar node that is oriented anterodorsally and is delimited posteriorly by a dorsally or posterodorsally orineted area .
the area of the petiolar node that is dorsomedial ,  and oriented dorsally and is delimited anteriorly by the anterior petiolar profile and posteriorly by the caudal petiolar profile .
the area of the petiolar node that is posterodorsal ,  oriented posterodorsally and is delimited anteriorly by a dorsally or anterodorsally oriented area .
the anatomical structure of the epithelium that is delimited by material or immaterial anatomical entities .
the area of the cranium between the dorsal margin of the compound eye and the posterolateral cranial corner .
the contour line of the postocular area in frontal view .
the anatomical line between the posteriormost points of the postocular contour lines .
the lateral  ( vertical )  area that is posterior to the mesometapleural sulcus and anterior to the metapleural carina .
the sclerite that is connected to the pronotum ,  propleura ,  fore ,  middle and hind legs and the petiole via conjunctiva .
the transverse ,  dorsal groove on the mesonoto - metanoto - mesopecto - metapecto - propodeal complex posterior to the pronotal spiracle and anterior to the propodeal spiracle .
the lateral  ( vertical )  area that is anterior to the mesometapleural sulcus and posterior to the pronotum .
the clypeal carina that is median .
the area between the median carina of clypeus and the lateral carina of clypeus .
the anatomical line between the anteriormost  ( ventralmost )  points of compound eyes in frontal view .
the anatomical line between the intersections of the cranium contour and transverse torular line line in frontal view .
the anatomical line between the intersections of the cranium contour and ventral head line in frontal view .
the boundary of the orthographic projection of a defined side of the anatomical structure .
the contour line of the gena area in frontal view .
the contour line of the anterior profile of petiolar node in lateral view .
the contour line of the dorsal petiolar profile in lateral view .
the anatomical cluster posterior to the malar sulcus that is composed of carinae radiating from the pleurostomal condyle .
the anatomical line between the mesopleural and metapleural pits .
the anatomical cluster anterior to the malar sulcus that is composed of carinae radiating from the pleurostomal condyle .
the width that is the longest .
the width that is the shortest .
the sculpture that is composed of scutes .
the median impression on the frons that is dorsal to the intertorular carina and is not a scrobe for receiving the scape .
the median setiferous patch that is on the frons between the intertorular carina and the facial pit .
the sublateral setiferous patch that is on the frons between the intertorular carina and the facial pit ,  and is separated from the median setiferous patch by the supraclypeal depression .
the median area of the face between the dorsal  ( posterior )  margin of the clypeus and the intertolural carina .
the process that is located on the upper face dorsal to the intertorular carina and corresponds internally to a conical apodeme and not the tentorium .
the carina that connects the posterior margins of the left and right lateral ocellar fovea .
the distal projection of the volsella that corresponds to the apical parossiculal seta .
the apodeme that is dorsal to the intertorular line and ventral to the anterior ocellus .
the carina whose dorsal  ( posterior )  region overlaps the facial pit .
the flange that is median and on the occipital carina .
the flange that is submedial and is on the occipital carina .
the projection that is at the distal end of the penisvalva .
the row of setae on the distomedial harpal wall that is parallel to the harpal margin .
the pit at the anteriormost point of the mesodiscrimen .
the projection that is between the proximodorsal notch of cupula and the proximoventral notch of the cupula .
the notch on the proximoventral margin of the cupula just lateral to the gonocondyle .
the line of the metanoto - propodeo - metapecto - mesopectal complex that connects the humeral sclerite to the third phragma .
the median projection on the anterior region of the metanoto - propodeo - metapecto - mesopectal complex .
the transverse carina that is dorsal to the facial pit and ventral to the anterior ocellus .
the carina that is connects the clypeus with the antennal rim .
the carina that extends ventrally from the lateral margin of the antennal rim .
the invagination that at the ventrolateral edge of the pronotum .
the straight anatomical line between the anterior and posterior ends of the sternaulus .
the anatomical line that extends between the lateral end of the epicnemial carina and the postpectal carina and is parallel to the lateroventral mesopleural carina .
the anatomical line that is between the anterior ends of the left and right notauli .
the anatomical line that is between the anterior margins of the left and right preaxillae .
the width of the harpe in lateral view .
the median anatomical line of the head in anterior view .
the median anatomical line of the head in dorsal view .
the anatomical line between the distalmost point of the gonostyle volsella complex and the distalmost point of the harpe in lateral view .
the muscle that is attached to the axillary sclerite .
the anterior area of the petiole that is narrower than the posterior region in dorsal view .
the area of the epipharyngeal wall that is posterior to the epipharyngeal lobe ,  is thicker than surrounding regions of the epipharyngeal wall and is covered with dorsally oriented acanthae .
the anatomical line between the anteriormost pont of the cranium and the posteriormost point of the metasoma .
the submedial corner at the distoventral margin of the cupula .
the cuticular invagination that is tubular ,  branched into tracheoles and bears the taenidia .
the cuticular invagination that is sclerotized and is between the external aperture of the spiracle and the distal end of the trachea .
the resilin rich area that is ringlike and connects the ramus with the rest of the flagellomere .
the median spine that is on the posterodorsal region of the mesoscutellum .
the distal region of the aedeagus that is flat  ( delimited by an edge from the rest of the aedeagus )  and bears four sensillum basiconicum .
the conjunctiva that connects the lateral end of the antecostal sulcus of the first abdominal tergum with the anterior margin of the metanoto - propodeo - metapecto - mesopectal complex .
the area that is anterior to the metapecto - propodeal conjunctiva ,  posterior to the metapleural pit and dorsal to the metapleural sulcus .
the flange that is located on the ventral edge of the mandible and not continuous with the mandibular condyle .
the median ,  smooth area that is smooth ,  is surrounded by sculptured areas and is on the abdominal mediotergite 4 .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to the eleventh flagellomere .
the spine on the distal margin of the axillula .
the anatomical line that is the shortest among the lines that connect the internal margin of the compound eyes and are tangential to the anteriormost point on the median ocellus .
the row of setae that is transverse and located distally on the third metasomal mediotergite and is composed of setae at least 2 times as long as other setae on the metasoma .
the vein that is adjacent proximally to the pterostigma .
the maximum distance between the dorsal and ventral margin of the postpetiole in lateral view .
the area that is 535 m wide ,  polygonal ,  repetitive ,  is delimited by lines and is the element of the reticulate sculpture .
the anatomical line between the anteriormost point of the anterior rim of pronotum and the posterodorsal edge of the nucha in lateral view .
the carina that is transverse and dorsal to the nucha .
the reticulate that is composed of convex scutes .
the reticulate that is composed of flat scutes .
the dorsomedian area of the mesoscutellar axillar complex including the scutellar fovea and the mesoscutellar disc .
the area that is anterior to the anatomical line connecting the left and right labial palpal excisions .
the area that is posterior to the anatomical line connecting the left and right labial palpal excisions .
the projection that is on the proximolateral margin of the posterior stipital sclerite .
the condyle of the cardo that inserts into the cardinal condyle of the cranium and is adjacent to the cranial fossa of the cardo .
the corner that is located laterally on the distal margin of the cardo .
the corner that is located medially on the distal margin of the cardo .
the flange on the lateral part of the prinicipal carina of the stipes .
the area of the lateral flange of the principal carina of the stipes distal to the notch of the principal carina of the stipes .
the area of the lateral flange of the principal carina of the stipes proximal to the notch of the principal carina of the stipes .
the sclerite that is located laterally on the lateral wall of the galeo - lacinial complex .
the trichoid sensillum that is on the posterior surface of the glossa .
the campaniform sensillum on the stipes .
the ventrolateral ,  triangular impression adjacent posteriorly to the acetabular carina .
the anatomical line that extends between the anterior and posterior margins of an anatomical structure .
the anatomical line that is the shortest distance between the compound eye and the torulus .
the flagellomere that is located immediately distal to the twelfth flagellomere .
the diameter that is the longest .
the diameter that is the shortest .
the acantha that is on the wing blade .
the height that is the longest .
the groove on the posterodorsal margin of the metapleuron .
the groove ventral to the acropleural sulcus and anterior to the prespecular sulcus that extends toward the mesopleural pit .
the sulcus along the dorsal margin of the transverse pronotal carina that is posterior to the epomial carina and ventral to the pronotal suprahumeral sulcus
the area delimited anteriorly by the pronotal - mesopectal suture ,  posterodorsally by the ventral limit of the subacropleural sulcus ,  and posteroventrally by the episternal foveal line .
the median anatomical line of the pronotum in dorsal view .
the median anatomical line of the mesoscutellar - axillar complex in dorsal view .
the median anatomical line of the metanotum in dorsal view .
the median anatomical line of the metapectal - propodeal complex in dorsal view .
the proximodistal anatomical line of the 1st flagellomere .
the width of the 1st flagellomere .
the maximum width of the pedicel .
the anatomical line that is the longest vertical diameter of the compound eye in lateral view .
the straight anatomical line between the proximal and distal ends of the malar sulcus .
the anatomical line that connects the widest point between the apical edge of the compound eyes and extends to the anterior and posterior cranial margins in lateral view .
the mesoscutum length in dorsal view .
the maximum width of the mesoscutellar - axillar complex in dorsal view .
the anatomical line that is the shortest between the first abdominal spiracle and the lateral margin of the metanotum .
the maximum diameter of the first abdominal spiracle .
the median anatomical line of the abdominal tergum 2 .
the median anatomical line of the hypopygium in ventral view .
the distal region of the female abdomen whose posterior portion bears the cerci and the anterior portion is part of female t9 .
the procoxal muscle that arises from the prorspinasternum .
the metalaterophragmal muscle that arises from the metanotum .
the anteromedian apodeme on the tentorial bridge that receives the posterior contractor of the pharynx .
the proximomedial region of the mandible that is adjacent to the mola of the opposite mandible and serves as a grinding surface .
the sclerotised invaginations that are tubular and are inside the mandible .
the peg - shaped sensillum that is apical on the apicalmost sclerite of the labial palp .
the tegula of the hind wing .
the conjunctiva that is between the anterior and posterior metanotal wing processes .
the apodeme that is cup shaped and recieves the site of insertion of the metabasalar muscles .
the fossa that receives the metepimeral condyle of abdomina tergum 1 .
the paracoxal ridge that is posterior to the site of origin of the posterior metapleuro - metabasalar muscle .
the flange that is on the paracoxal ridge and that serves as the site of attachment for the the anterior metapleuro - metabasalar and median metapleuro - metacoxal muscles .
the notch at the base of the lateral coxal condyle of the metapleuron .
the apodeme that is located anteromedially on the lateral metafurcal arm and corresponds to the site of origin of the lateral metafurco - mesofurcal muscle .
the spine that is located on the ventral face of the metafemur .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the spurs that are proximal to the distal margin of the tibia .
the projection that extends over the median portion of the antecostal sulcus .
the projection that extends over the lateral portion of the antecostal sulcus .
the flange of the metalaterophragma that is lateral and serves as the site of origin of the ph3 - t2 muscle .
the longitudinal ridge of the petiole that is median .
the articulation that is composed of the articular surfaces of abdominal segment 1 and abdominal segment 2 .
the sclerite that is proximal to the second valvifer and receives the site of origin of the posterior second valvifer - second valvula muscle .
the acellular anatomical structure that is in the hind gut of the pupa .
the sclerite that is between the propleuron and the procoxa .
the sclerite that is between the procoxa and the prosternum .
the ridge that is adjacent posteriorly to the transscutal articulation .
the ridge that is median and is at the posterior region of the mesoscutellum .
the flange that extends along the margin of the mesoscutellum reducing its opening into the lumen of the mesoscutellum .
the cup - shaped ,  sclerotised region et the apical portion of the tendon of the basalare that serves as the site of origin of the basalare muscles .
the sclerite that is located anterodorsally on the metapectus ,  posterior to the postalar process .
the apodeme on the anteroventral margin of the mesopectus that serves as the site of origin of prospinasternal muscles .
the apodeme that is oriented poseteriorly and arises from the mesodiscrimenal lamella at the base of the mesofurca .
the notch on the anterior margin of the metapectus just ventrally of the metapleural arm .
the notch that is at the lateral end of the paracoxal sulcus .
the sclerotized ,  round patch in the middle of wing cell .
the carina that is parallel to and extends anteroventrally of the metapleural carina ,  is continuous with the metapleural apodeme and is separated from the metapleural carina by a crenulate impresion
the anteroposteriorly oriented carinae that arise posteriorly from the transverse carina on petiole .
the scrobe on the ventral region of the scape that accommodates the flagellum when it is pressed against the scape .
the conjunctiva that separates the left and the right cardines .
the median row of spines on the mesoscutellum .
the submedian fossa that is located on the dorsal margin of the pronotum and accommodates the pronotal condyle of the mesonotum .
the submedial condyle that is located on the ventral margin of the mesoscutum and inserts into the mesonotal fossa of the pronotum .
the articulation that is composed of the pronotal condyle of the mesoscutum and the mesonotal fossa of the pronotum .
the row of setae that extends along the posterolateral edge of the metanoto - propodeo - mesopecto - metapectal complex and the metacoxa .
the sulcus that connects the transverse pronotal sulcus and the posterior margin of the pronotum ventral to the anterior thoracic spiracle and together with the ventral portion of the transverse pronotal sulcus delimits anteriorly the site of origin of the pronoto - mesobasalar muscle .
the median apodeme on the proximodorsal region of the cupula .
the median area at the  proximodorsal cupulal margin that is inflected and serves as the site of origin of the  dorsomedial cupulo - gonostipal muscles .
the median projection on the proximodorsal region of the harpe that accommodates tha gonossiculus when it is pressed against the harpe .
the setiferous patch on the medial surface of the harpe .
the row of setae that is transverse and delimits the distal cercal area on t9 .
the invagination that is at the ventral end of the of the mesometapleural sulcus .
the invagination that is at the ventral end of the of the metapleural carina .
the anatomical line that is the shortest between the ventral margin of the torulus and the epistomal sulcus .
the anatomical line that is the shortset between the ventral margin of the anterior ocellus and the dorsal margin of the torulus .
the sclerite that is ringlike and is connected via conjunctiva distally to the fifth sclerite of the maxillary palp via conjunctiva .
the flange that extends dorsolaterally from the mesodiscrimenal lamella .
the apical tooth of mandible that is located closest to the clypeus .
the area that is elevated and extends between the antennal rims .
the sensillum with a hair - like cuticular component .
the flange that extends dorsolaterally from the mesodiscrimenal lamella .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the labium and the hypopharynx .
the sclerite that is between the basal segment of the labial palp and the prementum .
the area of propodeal - metapectal complex that is posterior to the first lateral area and medial to the lateral longitudinal carina .
the distal invagination of the ventral femoral wall that is in contact with the tibial flexor sclerite or with the genuflexor sclerite when the tibial flexor muscle is fully contracted and the femoro - tibial joint is fully flexed .
the proximal sclerite of the tibial flexor tendon .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises medially  ( ventrally )  of the femur and inserts on the genuflexor plate .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of two sclerite surfaces ,  that are adjacent to each other and that prevent the movement of a joint .
the lock between a sclerite that is on or continuous with the tibial flexor tendon and the ventral femoral wall .
the tendon that is connected to the distal end of the tibial flexor muscle .
the cuticular invagination at the distal end of the genuflexor sclerite that is adjacent to  ( articulates with )  the outerwall of the tibia .
the process that is located laterally  ( dorsally )  on the proximal margin of the tibia and corresponds to the site of insertion of the tibial extensor muscle .
the intrinsic leg muscle that arises laterally  ( dorsally )  of the femur and inserts on the dorsal process of the tibia .
the rim that extends along the distal margin of the ventral femoral wall .
the apical tooth of mandible that is between the dorsal tooth of mandible and the lower tooth .
the paired and concave area on the acrostenite 7 that bears the orifice of type iii exocrine glands .
